
[Illustration: "Thus they started in a line, Yhon leading" ... Page 182]




    GIRL SCOUTS IN
    THE ADIRONDACKS

    BY
    LILLIAN ELIZABETH ROY

    AUTHOR OF
    THE POLLY BREWSTER BOOKS,
    THE LITTLE WASHINGTONS BOOKS

    ILLUSTRATED

    GROSSET & DUNLAP
    PUBLISHERS NEW YORK

    Made in the United States of America


    COPYRIGHT, 1921, BY
    GEORGE SULLY & COMPANY

    _The Girl Scouts in the Adirondacks_

    _Printed in the U. S. A._




    CONTENTS


    CHAPTER                                                         PAGE

       I. THE FRIDAY JINX                                              1

      II. ANOTHER DAY OF TROUBLES                                     24

     III. IN THE MOUNTAINS AT LAST                                    41

      IV. A VISIT TO GREY FOX CAMP                                    60

       V. A STORY OF CREATION                                         72

      VI. LOST ON THE TRAIL                                           91

     VII. A LITTLE BUSINESS                                          106

    VIII. JAKE'S INTERVIEW WITH A SKUNK                              127

      IX. LESSONS IN TRACKING                                        139

       X. THE GIRL SCOUTS ENTERTAIN                                  157

      XI. A CANOE TRIP                                               179

     XII. FIRST AID                                                  190

    XIII. SHOOTING THE RAPIDS--AND OTHER THINGS                      204

     XIV. THE GRAND SURPRISE                                         214




ILLUSTRATIONS


"Thus they started in a line, Yhon leading" (page 182)    _Frontispiece_

                                                                    PAGE

"Would you prefer to sit here and dream, Betzy, or go back
with me and eat sandwiches"                                           16

"We are lost, come find us"                                           98

"Where--which way did you hear them?" questioned Joan                211




GIRL SCOUTS IN THE ADIRONDACKS


CHAPTER ONE

THE FRIDAY JINX


"Are we ready to start, girls?" called Mrs. Vernon, the Captain of
Dandelion Troop of Girl Scouts, as she glanced at her proteg√©es seated
in two large touring cars.

"Ready! Why, Verny, we've been waiting for you these ten minutes,"
retorted Juliet Lee, one of the original members of the troop.

"And we're just crazy to be off before that black cloud overhead adds to
mother's fear lest I never come home again," added Ruth Bentley, another
of the first four girl scouts of Elmertown.

"Well, then, it seems that all the baggage and outfit we need with us on
the trip is safely stowed away, eh, Jim?" said Mrs. Vernon, looking at
the driver of the other car.

"Everything that I found waiting to be packed when I drove up to the
side door," replied the chauffeur.

"All right! Then we're off, folkses, but we'll send you word the moment
we arrive at Old Forge in the Adirondacks," called Mrs. Vernon, to the
crowd of relatives of the various girls, all gathered to watch the
scouts drive away.

"Good-by! Good-by!" now shouted many girlish voices, and "Good-by!
Good-by!" was shouted back as the two seven-passenger cars started on
the long journey.

Mrs. Vernon led the way in her luxurious automobile, and as they turned
the bend of the road, where the last of the group still watching on the
Vernon lawn was lost to sight, she laughingly remarked:

"I never thought a crowd of girls could get ready for such a long outing
in so short a time."

"It all depends on how badly the girls _want_ to be ready, Captain,"
retorted Joan Allison, the fourth girl of the number who founded
Dandelion Camp of Girl Scouts the summer before.

"Say, girls! I just felt a drop of rain from that inky cloud!" Betty Lee
warned. She was Julie's sister, and they were two who had first
suggested a scout organization.

Mrs. Vernon slowed down and turned to the scouts. "Shall we stop to put
on the rain-curtains?"

"Mercy, no! It's only a sprinkle, and we're not sugar," exclaimed Joan,
glancing at the sky.

The other girls followed her gaze, and Julie said: "See all the blue
sky! Enough to make the proverbial 'night-cap'."

In case the reader has not yet met the four girls who had such a
thrilling time while at camp the previous summer, it will be best to
make their acquaintance now.

As stated before, Juliet and Elizabeth Lee were the two sisters who
planned having a scout troop for girls in Elmertown. Joan Allison and
Ruth Bentley, both schoolmates of the Lee girls, eagerly agreed to add
their efforts to the others' and secure the interest of enough girls for
them to be able to apply for a charter from the Girl Scout Headquarters
in New York City.

Before they closed their camp on "Verny's Mountain" that summer, five
other girls had been admitted to membership in the young Patrol, namely:
Hester Wynant, fourteen; Anne Bailey, fourteen; Judith Blake, thirteen;
her sister, Edith Blake, twelve; and Amy Ward, thirteen.

Then during the winter, other girls who had heard of the good times the
scouts had had in camp that past summer became so insistent to mothers
at home that permission to join the organization was granted them.

Having nine girls in their original Patrol, with Julie as Leader, and
Joan for Corporal, the scouts now felt experienced enough to pass all
the tests required to apply for a Troop Charter. The young scouts were
an active group and when the Charter arrived from National Headquarters
the same day the girls had planned to start for camp, there was great
rejoicing.

True to his promise given the Girl Scouts the summer previous, Mr.
Gilroy had sent word to Mrs. Vernon when the camp in the Adirondacks was
ready for them. When the girls found that Mrs. Vernon planned to use her
large touring car for half of the number in the Troop to go in, and Ruth
Bentley's father had offered his car for the other half, thus saving
them great expense for railroad tickets, and giving them the pleasure of
autoing the whole long distance, the excitement rose and would not be
calmed down again.

So it was not only a happy Troop that shouted good-by to relatives, but
also a flushed, merry group of nine girls who could not keep silent for
long.

Ruth was in the rear seat of her father's car, which Jim was driving,
when she suddenly sat up and called out to the chauffeur:

"I'm sure one of our suitcases on the trunk-rack at the back must be
loose, Jim. I hear it bump about every time you go over a rough place in
the road."

"It can't be, Miss Ruth," returned Jim, trying to peer out and see the
baggage; "I strapped 'em on good and tight before we left."

"Well, it happens to be my suitcase that's on top, and I'm sure I don't
want to lose it," declared Ruth.

"Maybe we'd better stop and make sure about it; we can soon catch up
with Verny again," suggested Judith.

So Jim sprang out to investigate. "The suitcases are all right, Miss
Ruth, but somethin's wrong in the back all right."

At that Ruth jumped out and joined the man. "What is it?" asked she,
anxiously.

"The sag in that spring 'pears to me to say it is about done for. We'll
have to travel slow till we find a garage."

"For mercy's sake! Didn't you and Pa's chauffeur overhaul both the cars
thoroughly when you knew we were going on this trip?"

"Your father sent this machine to the garage in Elmertown, 'cause he
said they'd know how to do the job up better'n us," explained Jim.

"Then it serves Dad right if he has to pay for a new spring! The idea of
trusting strangers with his car at this important time! But here we are
with a wornout old spring on our hands!" cried Ruth, stamping her foot
impatiently.

"Oh no, Ruth, not on our hands--but what is ten times worse--on the rear
end of the car," laughed Hester.

"Well, we've got to go slow, I suppose, and stop somewhere to replace
the old thing," grumbled Ruth, climbing back in the car.

"If 'Liza knew of this mischance, wouldn't she gloat over her 'Friday
Bad Luck' prophecy?" laughed Ann.

Jim started again, but carefully avoided the ruts and bumps in the road
until he came to a large garage. Fortunately for all, they found a new
spring in stock and the men were soon at work replacing the bad one.

"Hurrah for us Jinx-breakers! This bit of luck in finding a new spring
on hand more than offsets a Friday curse," gleefully cried Ruth.

"You young ladies sure are lucky, but it will take some time to do the
work, an' you may as well take a walk and see our nice Jersey town,"
suggested the proprietor of the garage.

The scouts followed this sensible advice and stopped at a shop where
they treated each other to soda, candy, and peanuts. There being nothing
more thrilling to do, they sat down in the Park and ate the plebeian
delicacy and talked.

"I love peanuts, don't you?" Anne asked of the girls.

"Yes, but they have to be enjoyed away from home, or folks will make fun
of you," added Ruth.

"Not any more, Ruth. When a five-cent bag of peanuts, these days, only
contains ten nuts that lifts them out of the cheap class," laughed
Hester.

"And makes them a luxury, eh?" added Judith.

By the time the peanuts were gone, Jim signaled the girls and they
hurried back to the garage. It took but a moment for them to jump in and
urge Jim to hurry after Verny's car, somewhere in the lead.

Mile after mile of beautiful woodland, with now and then a small town,
but with many flourishing farms along the way, were reeled off rapidly
as the machine sped along as if on wings. Finally they reached a
crossroad where the signboard warned them: "All travel limited to eight
miles per hour."

"Slow down, Jim, or you'll land us in a county jail," called Ruth.

"Then Mrs. Vernon must be in jail--'cause she ain't in sight along the
road, and to get as far as this she _had_ to speed," declared Jim.

"It's funny she wouldn't stop to find out what became of us, when we
dropped so far behind," ventured Hester.

"They'll look us up at mealtime, never fear," laughed Anne. "We've got
the hamper with us, you know."

The others laughed at this remark, but they had not gone much farther
along the road before they spied the Vernon automobile waiting under a
great oak tree. When the tardy car came up, both parties began to shout,
some asking where the delinquents had been, and the unfortunates to
demand why folks wouldn't look behind once in a while!

Finally Jim could make himself heard, and he explained about the spring
and where they had to stop to replace the old one.

"Well, _we_ stopped to discuss ways. We ought to decide the route we
want to take before we reach Jersey City," said Mrs. Vernon.

"Which is the route you'd chose, Verny?" added Ruth.

"Well, we can save a lot of time by going along to Edgewater and cross
on the Fort Lee boat. That takes us right to 130th Street and Broadway,
New York. We avoid all crowds and city streets, but you will not see
anything of the life and bustle of New York City."

"How much time will we save?" asked Julie.

"Because we've lost so much over that old spring," added Ruth.

Mrs. Vernon smiled. "From upper New York we can drive right onto the
State Road that runs direct to Albany. By selecting that way we will
save a great deal of time, because traffic in the city is so congested
that every driver has to travel slow and fall in line back of endless
cars. At every corner when the signal holds up the entire line one has
to stop to permit crosstown traffic a chance."

"Then for goodness' sake, let's go through the country on this side of
the Hudson, and cross where you said--Fort Lee Ferry," declared Julie.

Every one agreeing to this decision, the plan was carried out as
outlined by the Captain. Once on Broadway, where it passes Van Cortlandt
Park, the girls called to Mrs. Vernon.

"How about lunch--we're famished?"

"Oh, don't let's stop here for lunch. Let's go on till we find a nicer
spot in the country," returned Joan.

"Maybe there won't be any better place," demurred Judith.

"Oh, yes, there is. After we leave Yonkers we will find lots of spots,
Verny says," called Julie, from the first car.

"We need a shady place where a spring will give us water," said Betty.

"A spring failing to bubble up at the proper place, we may have to be
satisfied with a pump at some farmhouse," retorted her sister.

The two cars sped swiftly along Broadway, through Yonkers,
Hastings-on-Hudson, and Dobb's Ferry. At this last place the Captain
pointed out the famous old Headquarters used by General Washington at
the close of the Revolution.

"Girls, there doesn't seem to be any picnic grounds for us along this
State Road," remarked Mrs. Vernon. "Suppose we take a bite as we travel
along, and cook a regular dinner when we are out in the country
somewhere?"

"We're willing, in fact, I am more than willing to eat," called Anne,
the scout with the healthy appetite.

So they drove on while refreshments were passed around, and every one
admired the river scenes of the ever-changing panorama of the Hudson.

Just beyond Peekskill the road ran under a culvert and a sharp turn on
the other side made it impossible to see what was on the road ahead. The
Captain made the turn very neatly and Jim was about to follow the
leading car, when several shrill cries from the girls ahead caused him
to put on the emergency brakes.

The passengers in the second car could just see what had caused the
frightened shouts from their friends in the first car. A gaunt farm
horse was standing on his hind legs pawing the air madly, while a
rickety old spring wagon seesawed uncertainly on the edge of a deep
ditch beside the road. But the driver of the horse was on the road,
hanging on to the bridle while plying a stout hickory stick freely over
the animal's back.

"Git down! Will yuh come to arth, yuh rascal?" shouted the irate woman
who was garbed in a man's farm hat and a long duster.

"Do you need any assistance?" called Mrs. Vernon, anxiously.

"Not ef I kin git him to plant his feet on arth agin. He ain't got no
spunk left to run away, 'cause he's ben out plowing all day, and it w'ar
a shame to drive him to the store. But it hed to be, 'cuz the ole man
tuk t'other hoss to go to a meetin'."

As the unusual character talked, she tugged at the bridle until she
finally had the horse quieted down again. Then he allowed his long ears
to droop lazily, his spine to sag in the middle, and his erstwhile
springy legs to bend as if he felt too weary to stand up.

The woman with the weather-beaten face and toughened hands was a fluent
speaker, even though she paid little attention to the latest style in
dress for women. She leaned against the shaft of the wagon and plied her
questions to the tourists as freely as she had plied the hickory stick
to the horse.

"Be you-all out fer a lark?" asked she, eyeing the number of girls in
both cars.

Jim thought to move his car gradually along the road so the scouts in
his charge could join in the conversation with the woman. But the moment
the horse saw the automobile crawling towards him, he jumped aside. The
wagon-wheel turned suddenly and the unexpected happened; the woman who
had been leaning heavily on the wheel was unceremoniously dropped to a
sitting posture in the dusty road.

Several of the scouts had to smother with handkerchiefs, a keen desire
to laugh, but the owner of the horse seemed to take the situation
good-naturedly.

"Wal, ef that ain't jus' like Samson! He does the mos' onexpected
tricks, so's that he keeps us guessin' what next."

Jim sprang out of the car when he saw the result of his innocent action
with the engine, but the agile woman was up before he could reach her
side. She brushed the dust from her long coat and chuckled aloud: "I
allus said that animal oughter be called Delilah 'cuz _she_ was so sly,
but my ole man says 'Samson' was close enough to that critter, and this
animal hez such long hair that it suits with the name."

"You've just had him clipped, I see," ventured Mrs. Vernon.

"Not clipped, Captain--but shorn of his locks like Samson," laughed
Julie.

"Maybe that's why he feels so tired," added Joan, quickly.

Every one but the farmer's wife laughed. She seemed very serious over
the conversation, and nodded her head affirmatively.

"Well, we have to drive on, madam, but we're sorry to have frightened
Samson," said Mrs. Vernon, in order to make an end to the scene.

"Say, couldn't you tell us where there is a nice picnic place near
here?" called Jim, as the first car started.

"Yeh--a few miles furder on. You'll find a nice little brook in a grove
of sugar-maples, with green grass on all sides."

Jim thanked the woman, and started his car. Mrs. Vernon was informed of
the grove which was to be a stopping place for dinner, and all were
eagerly on the lookout for the spot that would offer such an ideal
resting place.

But it was the longest "few miles" any of the scouts had traveled, for
the meter showed many, many miles before any grove was seen. There was
no brook in it, but the grass was very green, and the maple grove, which
crowded a knoll a short distance from the road, looked cool and
inviting.

As usual, Julie was the first one out of the cars and over the fence.
She started to cross the very green grass, but instantly sank into the
water that was hidden under the green blades.

"Help! Oh, I'm drowning!" shouted she, struggling to pull her feet clear
of the bog. But she would free one foot, and instantly the other would
sink. Then she tried to drag that one out, but the first one would go
down again. Both together she could not get out.

"Oh, oh! See the mess poor Julie's in!" called one of the girls.

Mrs. Vernon was gazing quickly around for some sort of help to get the
scout out, but the girls stood about the place sympathizing with the
furious scout.

"Is it like that all over there, Julie?" called Betty, anxiously.

"How do I know? Come over and find out for yourself!" snapped her
sister.

The girls laughed at the retort, but Betty added: "I only wanted to know
if it was safe for me to come over and help you out."

Julie straightened up and glared at her soft-hearted sister. "You sound
just like our Sunday school teacher when she reads: 'Come over into
Macedonia and help.'"

Again the audience of girls laughed appreciatively, but Julie was too
busy keeping her feet "treading water" to pay any attention to their
enjoyment. Meantime, Jim had removed some rails from the fence and was
bringing them to the scout's aid.

"Now, Miss Julie, when I shove these over, you manage to work an arm
over each one, and sort of lift yourself out that way. I'll shove others
over for you to step on next, and in that way you can get out and across
to us," advised Jim, working as he spoke.

Finally Julie was rescued from the mire, and then the Captain said:
"Every one walk along that elevated bank, over there, to reach the
grove, as this entire area may be a boggy spring."

But the grass under the trees in the grove was found to be hard and dry,
and they soon began to prepare luncheon. While Mrs. Vernon unpacked the
hamper, the scouts were detailed on various duties: some to build a
fire, some to hunt spring water, some to set table on the grass. But
Julie was excused from all these tasks, as she had more than enough work
to do in cleaning the mud from her boots and stockings.

When luncheon was almost ready, Judith and Amy, who had been sent to
find the spring and bring back drinking water, reported: "We couldn't
find any spring."

Julie looked up and jeered: "You are fine scouts! Couldn't find a spring
when all you have to do is to find the source of all that water where I
went down!"

"Water! That looked like mud," retorted Judith.

"We'll go for the water," volunteered Joan, catching hold of Betty's
sleeve to take her along.

So they started, and as Julie had said, the spring that fed the boggy
spot was not far back in the grove. The water gurgled down from a cleft
in a huge rock, and on either side of the small pool wood violets dipped
their fragrant petals into the sparkling mirror.

Betty sat down upon a flat rock beside the pool to enjoy the scene. But
practical Joan filled the pail with cold water and then laughed at
poetical Betty.

"Would you prefer to sit here and dream, Betty--or go back with me and
eat ham sandwiches?"

"Oh, I forgot where I was," laughed Betty, rising reluctantly to help
carry the pail of water.

"That's what I thought," tittered Joan, "but the rest of the girls
prefer something more solid than dreams."

During the luncheon the Captain said: "Wouldn't it be splendid if each
one of us kept a diary of what happens during this summer's camp? Then
we can rewrite the facts when we go home and make a good story of it.
Perhaps a real publisher will buy it from us and thus give us a fund for
next year's outing--if we have one."

"Oh, that is great!" exclaimed several voices with girlish enthusiasm.

"Well then, when we camp to-night, we'll jot down the episodes of the
day's trip--not forgetting to dwell at length on 'Samson,' and Julie's
side-plays," remarked the Captain, smilingly.

"Has any one thought of a stopping place for the night?" asked Jim.

"Not definitely, Jim; but I hope to cross the river at Poughkeepsie and
drive along the west shore as far as possible. Then we can pitch camp
at any good place we find," replied the Captain.

They had not gone much farther before Ruth called: "It looks as if the
rear tire on Verny's car was flat!"

The Captain slowed up, and every one tried to see the tire. "That's what
it is, all right, Captain!" ejaculated Jim, impatiently.

"Dear me! That means another delay!" sighed several girls.

The car had to be jacked up and Jim went to work to mend the puncture in
the tube, then pumped and pumped until the tire was properly inflated
once more.

As the tourists climbed into their respective seats in the automobiles,
Joan said: "Well, Captain, this wasn't such a bad day after all--in
spite of being a Friday."

"I'm thankful for it, too," sighed Betty, fervently.

The cars made good time after that and passed over the ferry at
Poughkeepsie, to travel northward on the road that ran along the west
shore. They pitched camp in some woods and soon had a fire started to
heat the canned soup they had brought. When all else was ready, the
Captain banged upon a tin pan to call the scouts to dine.

"Um! That tomato soup smells good!" exclaimed Joan, sniffing audibly,
as she saw the contents of the pan that stood over the fire.

"Will you serve it, Jo--you are nearest the pan?" said Mrs. Vernon,
passing the basket that held the tin cups.

"Here! Everybody hold up a mug to fill, while I come around with the
pan!" ordered Joan, taking hold of the pan-handle that had been over the
fire a long time.

"Oo-oouch!" cried the girl, whipping her hand up and down as she danced
wildly about.

"You didn't spill the soup, I hope!" exclaimed Anne, with deep concern.

"What difference would that make--a little cheap soup? But my hand--oh,
it's got a trail blazed clean across the palm!" wailed Joan, showing her
red-skinned hand to sympathizing friends.

"Poor old scout! We have to learn all kinds of blazing, I suppose,"
murmured Julie.

"And the soup _is_ all safe--Jo never dropped the pan!" declared Anne,
with gratification in her tones.

"Here, Miss Jo," said Jim, who had gone for a bottle kept in the kit.
"Pour this olive oil all over the hand and the smart will soon stop."

He hurried to give the bottle to Joan but his toe caught in a bramble
and tripped him. The bottle flew from his hand and struck the root where
Joan sat. The glass shattered and the oil ran out the grass at the
scout's feet.

    [Illustration: "Would you prefer to sit here and dream, Betzy,
    or go back with me and eat sandwiches" ... Page 16]

"Well, well! it must be the Friday Jinx that still pursues us," remarked
Jim, gazing regretfully at the glistening oil that formed beads on the
blades of grass.

The girls laughed merrily, but Mrs. Vernon seemed serious. She was about
to speak, when Amy asked Joan to pass the crackers. She picked up the
box that was nearest her, and turned to hand them to her next neighbor,
when her foot slipped on the oily grass and she sat down suddenly upon
the stump. The box fell in Hester's lap, but Joan clapped a hand over
her mouth and smothered a howl.

"Goodness me! What's the matter now, Jo!" cried Ruth, seeing the girl's
convulsed face.

Joan shook her head helplessly, but her eyes were filled with tears.
Every one wondered what could have happened, and when the scout could
speak she said thickly: "Oh, that oil! I slipped and bit the end of my
tongue clear off--I'm sure of it!"

"Stick it out and let's see," demanded Ruth.

"That's what comes of having too much of a good thing!" declared Julie,
teasingly.

Every one but the Captain laughed, and she said seriously: "Do you know,
girls, that I've had an idea about all this talk over Friday being a
'bad luck' day. Of course it is perfectly absurd to intelligent people,
but there are enough superstitious folk left in the world who actually
think Friday has some power to bring ill luck with it.

"Now I believe that it is the _fear_ and general belief in the
superstition that carries any weight with it. If we, as good intelligent
scouts, will try to break this silly fear for others, we shall have to
begin with ourselves, by not referring to the superstition with the
sense of its having _any_ power to act."

The girls listened seriously, as they always did when their Captain
started one of her "sermonettes" as Julie called them; and when she had
concluded, Joan said: "In other words, you want us to starve the poor
wraith still more by withdrawing any thoughts from the matter whatever?"

"Exactly! You've worded it better than I could have done myself,"
responded the Captain, emphatically.

When supper was over and everything about camp had been prepared for the
night, Joan suggested taking a stroll down the picturesque country road.

The gloaming was so inviting that the scouts decided to saunter down the
woodsy road. They continued along the inviting footpath for more than a
mile before they noticed a heavy fog settling upon everything.

"Better turn and go back, girls. This fog is obscuring everything along
the way," suggested Mrs. Vernon.

"B-r-r-r! Isn't it damp!" shivered Joan.

"Yes, and it will be worse before we get home," added Judith.

They retraced their steps, but the fog came thicker and heavier all the
time, and before they had gone more than half the way back, it was
necessary for the scouts to go single file in order to keep in the
footpath that ran along the top of a high grassy bank beside the narrow
road.

"It would be so much simpler to hike along the road, Verny," suggested
Hester.

"But there are so many machines traveling back and forth, and we'd have
to scramble up this wet slippery bank to get out of the way every time
one rushed past," explained Julie.

Julie was in front, heading the line. Being Scout Leader of the Troop,
she naturally led in most things. Suddenly she stopped short and warned
those back of her:

"Look out for this big boulder right in the pathway--have to detour
towards the fence!"

"Boulder! Why, there wasn't any boulder here on our way over," argued
Ruth.

"The fog's in Julie's eyes," laughed Joan.

"Maybe we didn't notice a rock before," ventured Amy.

"Maybe we are on the wrong road," said Anne.

"We're right, all right, but I see a boulder in the way. If you don't
believe me, come here and sprain your toe kicking it!"

A few of the scouts crowded in front to peer through the puzzling fog to
see the questionable boulder, but IT unexpectedly got upon its clumsy
feet and started for the girls. In the fog it loomed up as big as an
elephant.

"Murder! Fire! Help! Help!!" came in confused screams from the scouts in
front, as they turned precipitously to flee from this unknown danger.
The confusion, as they fell back upon the scouts behind, while the great
"boulder" still advanced slowly, was awful!

But the soft earth of the bank had been washed out from under the top
layer of roots and grass, and when so many stamping, crowding girls
brought their weight upon the crumbling ground, it caved in with them.
Jumping, screaming, tumbling scouts now went headlong down the slide of
five feet into the roadway.

The Captain and Betty had been far enough in the rear to escape this
general stampede, but they, too, saw the dark object trying to skirt the
newly broken-down embankment, and they slid quickly down the wet weedy
bank to get away from this ghostlike creature that crept towards them.

While brave scouts were getting up from the little ditch where they had
rolled, a plaintive call from the "boulder" above identified the
creature as belonging to the bovine kingdom. A second "Moo-oo," as the
cow passed slowly down the bank to the road, where she hoped to find
some one to lead her home, created a wild laugh from every one.




CHAPTER TWO

ANOTHER DAY OF TROUBLES


Early in the morning the scouts heard Jim rattling the pans while he
essayed to cook breakfast. They were soon up and dressed, and being
ready for another day's adventuring, they offered their services to the
cook.

"Last night after you-all went for that hike, I mooned around some
myself. I saw a little farmhouse over that hill, and I think a couple of
girls might try to get some milk for breakfast," suggested Jim, pointing
over the brow of a slight grade.

"All right, Hester and I will go for it, Verny!" exclaimed Amy.

"Very well, girls; the rest of us will do what we can to help Jim.
Breakfast will be all ready by the time you return, so don't dawdle on
the way, will you?" replied the Captain.

"Take the big thermos bottle that will keep the milk cold all day, and
bring the breakfast milk in this pail," suggested Julie, handing the
girls both articles as she spoke.

Hester and Amy disappeared over the brow of the hill where Jim said the
farm was located, but breakfast was ready and waiting a long time
before a sight of the girls was had again.

Hester carried the pail very carefully, and Amy held the bottle, so it
was evident that they had milk, but why should they seem to laugh so
merrily over something, as they drew near the scouts?

"What do you think happened to us?" called Amy.

"You'll never guess--we got chased by a bull!" added Hester.

"Oh, never!" cried the scouts who had been waiting anxiously.

"Yes, sir! We heard a cow and knew there must be a farm," began Amy
excitedly, but her companion interrupted her and said: "That wasn't a
cow we heard, but the bellow of this bull!"

"Do tell us all about how you escaped," chorused the eager voices of
many girls.

Every one was anxious to wait on the heroines, and after they had been
served everything at one time, they began to munch and talk.

"Well, first we left here and thrashed through those bushes back there,"
said Hester, nodding her head towards the alder bushes, "to reach the
place where we heard the cow--as we thought."

Here Hester choked over the egg, and Amy quickly took up the story: "And
we were halfway across a pasture lot when Hester, who was first, yelled
wildly and waved her arms. I looked up, 'cause I was watching where I
walked, the lot was pawed up into such hummocks, and saw Hester racing
for the low boughs of an apple-tree. Then I heard a thumping, and saw a
big bull charging across the meadow, making straight for us!"

Amy gasped and needed a drink of water, then Hester continued the tale:
"Oh, girls, it was thrilling! I managed to scramble up in the
apple-tree, and turned to see what had become of Amy. There she was,
sprinting like a Marathoner for the barbed-wire fence that enclosed the
lot. She back-trailed over to it, and up over it she went, just like a
swallow flies, but look at her stockings and skirt!"

Every one looked at Amy's apparel and sympathized with her, yet every
scout wished she had had such an exciting time.

"Now they can win a badge for story-telling, can't they, Verny?" said
Betty, glad for her two pals.

"And another one for mending," laughed Julie, vindictively.

"Poor Julie's awful sore about that mud," murmured Amy, winking an eye
at the others.

Every one laughed, but the Captain said: "Go on and finish the yarn."

"Well, I left Hester in the tree--safety first, you know--with the bull
standing under it, waiting for her, while I skirted the lot and reached
the house. When I told the old lady how we happened to be in such a fix,
she threw her gingham apron over her head and sat down on the doorstep
to laugh.

"I was beginning to feel offended, when she glanced up. She understood,
and said: 'Deary, that ole bull has to be helped to his stall every
night after a day in the pastoor. He oughter been butchered years an'
years ago, but you see he saved me from a wicked tramp one day, an'
father sayed Bill had earned his life-pension fer that. So Bill's safe
from the slaughter-house, but he sure is a nuisance these days. Why,
this mad run of his'n will keep him wheezin' fer a hull week. Now come
with me an' I'll show you how he's payin' the price fer actin' like a
three-year-old!"

"I followed the old lady to the fence, and there, sure enough! Bill was
sprawled out under the tree, puffing for breath, but poor Hester sat in
the branches wailing because she dared not come down while the bull was
making such a snorting noise!"

The scouts laughed heartily at the graphic picture of Hester crying up
in the tree, but the girl retorted, "Well, isn't 'Discretion the better
part of valor'?"

"Of course it is! We'd have done the same thing," agreed Mrs. Vernon,
still laughing at Amy's story. Then she suggested breaking camp.

After cleaning away all signs of camping, the scouts climbed into the
cars which were soon speeding along. They were keen, now, for something
new that they could write in their diaries, and many interesting things
were seen and dilated upon as they rode past.

As the autos neared Schenectady, one of the scouts began singing; in a
few moments all the girls were singing with her. But a hound ran out of
the gate of a farmhouse and barked at the oncoming singers. Then the
distracted dog sat down and lifted his snout high in the air. His dismal
prolonged howl of protest at such singing effectually ended the song,
and Julie called to the animal, "Wise doggy--to be able to tell singing
from _singing_!"

The weather was all that could be desired, and the two cars were in fine
shape for the run. After they left Amsterdam, where the large
carpet-mills would have offered interesting entertainment had not the
scouts a greater ambition in view, that of reaching camp--they voted to
stop for no sightseeing along the way. So they kept along the road to
Fonda. Here they left the railroad turnpike and went northward to
Johnstown.

At this place Mrs. Vernon made an error in judgment. She should have
gone westerly, through Rockwood, Lascelville, Oppenheim, and so on to
Delgeville. But she took the northward road, which looked better and was
more traveled. Not until she came to Gloversville did she realize the
mistake. Then she stopped and questioned a policeman how to reach her
destination. And he explained about the country road she must follow
due west in order to reach Rockwood, where the state roads would be
picked up again.

This advice was followed, and they traveled over the bad road until a
crossroad was reached. There was no mention made of this spot on the
road-map, and there was no signpost to direct a lost tourist. So the
Captain said, "We'll take the right-hand turn, it looks best."

Further on, the road descended and ran close to a river. "Dear me, I
hope we didn't take the wrong turn, anyway!" cried Mrs. Vernon. "That
officer never told me about a crossroad."

"And it's going to pour, too. Just look at that black cloud," said Joan.

"It hasn't thundered yet," Hester said, trying to be cheerful.

At the same moment a flash satisfied every one that a shower was
imminent, and Jim failed to relieve their fears when he said, "We don't
want to get caught on this low land when it rains. The road is lower
than the river and will soon be flooded over."

That spurred on the Captain, and she made the car fairly fly, in order
to reach higher ground before the shower came. But the storm won out.

"I felt a drop of rain!" called Julie.

"So did I--two drops more!" seconded Ruth.

"We'd better stop to button down the rain-curtains, Captain," advised
Jim.

"Maybe we can reach high ground soon, Jim!" called back Mrs. Vernon,
still speeding along the marshy road.

A loud peal of thunder and inky clouds warned her, however, that this
would be no trifling shower, so she stopped reluctantly for the curtains
to be fastened down over the sides of the cars. The girls got out while
the rain-curtains were sought in the box under the seat, and Jim removed
numerous items before he reached them in the bottom.

"Gee! everything under the sun was piled in here!" growled he. And by
the time he did get the covers out, the rain was falling hard.

While Jim and Mrs. Vernon secured the curtains on the buttons, the
scouts transferred the pyramid of camping necessities back into the
boxes under the seats. Then when all were snugly sheltered from the
rain, the Captain proceeded to start her car. It failed to respond,
however. She tried again, with no success. Then she turned and called to
Jim.

"Something must be wrong, Jim!"

"Mebbe it's 'cause the wheels is sunk so deep in that soft mud," said
he. "It's 'most up to the hubs."

"No--something is wrong with the engine," returned she.

"I'll slip on my oilskin and see," said Jim, finally.

"Oh, Jim! Don't slip on it--just _put_ it on," giggled Julie, the
irrepressible.

"Humph!" was all the reply she got at the stale joke.

"Jim, I'll help you," now offered Betty, willingly.

"You gals just sit still, will you?" growled Jim impatiently, as he
jumped out into the muddy road.

The wind came tearing down the valley that lay between the mountains,
driving shreds of storm-clouds before it. Gusts of rain dashed against
Jim's face as he peered and poked about the stubborn engine, but still
the obstinate machine refused to budge.

"I can't see a durn thing that's the matter with it!" shouted he, trying
to make himself heard above the whistling of the wind.

"Better get back in your car until the worst is over," called back Mrs.
Vernon.

So they all waited patiently for the rain to cease, but the storm grew
worse, while the clouds seemed to fairly empty themselves right over the
stalled cars. Suddenly Jim gave a frightened cry:

"Great Scott, Captain! The river's overflowin' her banks, and this
road's gettin' under water!"

"Then we've just _got_ to get out of this fix somehow!" wailed Mrs.
Vernon, gazing helplessly around for aid.

"I'll try to work my car close up to the other and see if I can't push
you ahead," suggested Jim, starting his engine as he spoke. But this
idea failed to render the assistance they looked for.

"I think you need a good hard impact to send you out of that mud. The
wheels are stuck," called Julie, who had been considering the plight.

"But how can we _get_ an impact? Jim can't crush in the radiator on his
car, you know! And the fender won't do it," said Ruth.

"Let a few of us get some of those stout rails from that fence and shove
them under the back of the machine. The rest of the girls can tie a rope
to the front and pull. Then when we give a signal, Jim can push with his
machine, while Verny throws hers into high--something ought to happen
with all that!" suggested Julie.

Anything seemed better than sitting helplessly while seeing the water
slowly rising in the roadway. So the plan proposed by Julie was put into
operation. Two long rails were shoved, one under each side of the back
of the car, with two scouts ready to apply all their youthful muscle up
on each rail. Four scouts stood in front holding to a rope, ready to
pull. The Captain sat at the wheel ready to speed, and Jim waited in his
car behind, ready to drive on.

"Now, when I yell 'go,' every one strain your muscles fit to crack. It's
the only way we'll get out of this," ordered Julie.

"Tell us when you're going to say 'go'!" begged Ruth.

"I'll shout 'One, two, three--GO'--then _go_!"

Julie braced herself, took a deep breath, and cried, "All ready--one,
two, three--GO!"

Four in front pulled with might and main. Mrs. Vernon's engine chugged
ready to break. Jim almost pushed the radiator in, and the four scouts
pushing on the rails--well, "they were not."

Jim was heard roaring unrestrainedly, while four girls in front were
standing and staring as if at an apparition. All the time, the rain fell
in a deluge, but Mrs. Vernon jumped out into the mud to see what had
happened at the rear. Then she, too, gasped.

Both the rails were completely worm-eaten, but how should girls have
known that? They were placed under the car at a dangerous angle for
their future use in the fence, and when the good strong muscles of four
scouts brought their weight upon the rails to lift the car somewhat, the
timber quickly split up and precipitated the four boosters, face
downward, in the mud.

"Oh, dear me! This is the last straw!" moaned Mrs. Vernon.

"No--the last rails!" sputtered Julie, trying to laugh.

"Girls--hold your faces up to the rain and it will wash the mud from
your eyes!" yelled Judith, who waited on the running board for further
developments.

She had hardly spoken when a swift shaft of blinding light and a
deafening crack of thunder sent a panic into every one. They were
stunned for a moment, and then such a howl as went up from nine lusty
throats!

"We're struck!" yelled some.

"Oh, we're killed!" added others, but it took only a second after they
had caught their breaths to pile, willy-nilly, into the cars, where they
huddled until the fright had subsided.

Shortly after the lightning had struck a large tree further up the road,
the rain suddenly stopped and the sun shone out as hot and bright as
ever.

"My! I feel like Pollyanna would," sighed Julie. "'I'm glad, _glad_,
GLAD' we weren't standing under that tree!"

"We can only die once," responded Ruth, sighing as she gazed down at the
flooded road.

"Ruth thinks she'd rather die quickly, than by slow degrees in being
choked in this mud," laughed Julie, catching Ruth's thought.

Every one laughed and that made them feel more cheerful. Then just back
of them came the sound of horses' hoofs and a kindly voice called out,
"Well, well, this is some plight you-all are in, eh?"

They turned and beheld a nice old man sitting astride one plow-horse and
leading a second.

"Reckon you didn't know this was one of the worst roads in the county
when it rains."

Mrs. Vernon explained how it came about that they were there, and the
old man said, "Fortunately, I cut across that field in order to reach
home. I was late and, as this is meeting night, I have to leave home
earlier than usual. Now I can help you pull out, 'cause my team is
pretty powerful."

He hitched his horses to the front of the stalled car, and it was soon
pulled up on higher ground where Jim could crawl under and see what was
wrong with the works.

"We are most grateful to you, sir, for your timely help," said Mrs.
Vernon. "How much do we owe you for this great service?"

"I'm glad I could help, madam. I am the parson of the district,
hereabouts, and I try to do good by the wayside as I walk this
life-road."

"Then, if you will not accept a gift for yourself, you cannot refuse it
for your flock. We will give to any needy one in your parish," said Mrs.
Vernon, handing him a folded bill.

Being sent along the right road with the minister's directions and
blessing, the cars soon reached Rockwood, and from there, followed the
usual route to Delgeville. The highway now ended, and a pretty country
road took its place as far as Salisbury, where a turnpike road began and
continued as far as Middleville. From the latter town onward, the roads
were indifferent or bad as far as Gravesville.

There were many interesting experiences for the scouts to write up in
their books later on, such as running into a balky herd of cows and
being threatened for damages by the farmer; holding their breaths when
Mrs. Vernon ran over a lot of broken glass sprinkled across the
road--but the tires held and no damage was done; stopping to bargain for
a string of fish that a little freckled-face boy had for sale; and last,
but not least, just before reaching Gravesville, being warned by a girl
of twelve of a masquerading constable, further up the road, who arrested
more speeding drivers than any other constable in the county.

When asked why she showed the scouts this partiality, the girl said:
"Because I'm going to be a scout myself, as soon as that new Manual gets
here. I wrote fer it t'other day, and I've got five schoolgirls ready to
start with me. Maw says she will ask the teacher to be our Captain."

Thereupon followed a good scout talk by Mrs. Vernon, the country girl
listening with all her wits alert.

"How'd you know we were scouts?" asked Julie, curiously.

"By that pennant flyin' in front, of course!" retorted the girl.

As the scouts drove away, Mrs. Vernon said, "She'll make a first-class
scout, because she uses her eyes and other faculties."

After leaving the town of Gravesville, the scouts took a short cut to
Prospect, but the roads were steep and rough, and it was all the engines
could do to mount the grades. Then the opposite down slopes were so
steep and sudden that it was necessary to put on all brakes and shut off
the engines.

One of these down grades had a sharp turn at the bottom, with a purling
stream running under a rustic bridge immediately at the base of the
mountain. On the other side of the bridge, the road rose abruptly up the
side of another mountain. The descent was made nicely and the Captain's
car crossed the bridge, but Jim's car stopped unexpectedly just as it
reached the bridge at the foot of the mountain.

"Another case of push!" laughed Julie.

"All out!" ordered Jim.

"What now?" called Mrs. Vernon, as she also stopped her car to ask what
was wrong.

"If only your car was behind, you could shove us across the bridge, but
there isn't enough room in this trap to do anything."

"Every one will have to help, Jim; the girls can push and pull the car
back to the grade, while you work the engine. Maybe it will start that
way," suggested Mrs. Vernon, waving her passengers out to help the
stranded car.

After half an hour's work, Jim suddenly called, "My! what a lot of
cotton-heads we are! Here, Captain, just back up and give us a tow
across the bridge--that's all!" At this simple remedy every one laughed.

The steep climb of the mountain was accomplished without trouble, and
there the road wound back and forth like a serpent's trail. Rocks,
weighing tons, overhung with lovely vines, jutted out from the sides of
the cut-out road that edged the cliff. Again, mossy dells where
maidenhair fern waved fragile fronds at the girls, nestled under giant
groups of pines. The chorus of wild birds mingled with the subdued music
of falling water, to the keen appreciation of the tourists who delighted
in this impressive scene as only scouts can.

The cars continued slowly through this peaceful place, but Jim's engine
suddenly stopped short again. He frowned and got out to examine it.

"Gee, Captain! the tank needs gas and no place at hand to buy the feed.
What shall I do?"

"We didn't cross that other bridge until we came to it," giggled Julie,
quickly.

"I suppose I've got to tow you along until we find gas, somewhere," said
Mrs. Vernon. So the second car was harnessed to the leader and they
started again.

In this manner they traveled until they came to a small settlement that
boasted an "Emporium" where all the "latest styles and goods were
sold." On the front porch of this store, in a low rocking-chair, sat the
owner, a lady of doubtful years. She jumped up spryly when the cars
stopped at the steps, and smiled invitingly.

"Do you sell gasoline?" asked Mrs. Vernon, politely.

"I guess I kin oblige you," replied the lady, going indoors.

Jim jumped out and began to unscrew the plug on the tank.

"Now who'd a thought we could get gas in this little shop?" declared
Ruth, surprised.

"You never can tell! I s'pose she wants to make all she can in every
way," added Hester.

Meantime the lady returned to the door and called out, "Won't you please
step this way?"

Jim thought she had to fill a measure from some barrel in the back, so
he went in. But the lady was searching diligently along a shelf of
bottles until she saw the one she wanted.

"Here they be--I knew I had 'em somewhere. One's ten cents, and the
other's a twenty-five cent bottle. But you have to take keer of fire,
you know."

Jim scratched his head, as he said, "I'll take a five-gallon can,
please, ma'am."

For a second, the old lady was amazed, but she rose to the occasion and
showed herself a true business woman, "Oh, I'm sorry, I'm just out of
that size to-day, but can't you come back to-morrow--I'll have it
then?"

Jim laughed. "I need it for the tank. The car won't go on nor come back,
unless I get some gas for it."

"Oh! I thought you wanted some to clean gloves, or shoes. That's the
only kind I keep on hand."

"Maybe you can tell us where we can get a gallon or so," said Jim,
trying hard to keep a straight face.

"If you kin wait until Jed gits back I kin send him to Prospeck Junction
for a gallin. He can't carry five gallins, I fear."

Jim started out and the shopkeeper followed as she spoke. So Mrs. Vernon
asked, "Where is Prospect Junction?"

"Jus' over yander, a bit of ways. It's quite a gay resort, I've hear'd
Jed say, where they sells gas to riders what come through. But I hain't
never gone there, 'cause I don't mingle with society. I am a church
member and 'tends to my business." The lady tossed her head with a
self-righteous air as she said the last words.

Jim said: "I'm sorry that four-ounce bottle wouldn't do, Missus." And
the scouts bowed as they left her standing on the "stoop."




CHAPTER THREE

IN THE MOUNTAINS AT LAST


The scouts finally reached Old Forge, where they had been due a full day
sooner. Mr. Gilroy was worried at their non-appearance and had
telephoned to their homes to learn that they had left on time. Then he
followed them along their route and at some places he heard they had
stopped and gone again, and at others that they had not yet arrived. But
the moment the girls saw him and heard his complaint, they laughed at
his concern.

"Nice way to treat your adopted father--laugh at him, because he worried
over his girls!" said he in pretended grievance.

"But what could possibly happen when we had Jim and Verny at the
wheels?" asked Ruth.

"That's just it! With the Captain leading, I was sure you would be
jailed for speeding, and would need me to bail you out," teased he.

"We needed baling out when we got in the river-flood, but not in jail!"
laughed Julie.

"If we had dreamed you had a 'phone way up here, we would have called
you to help us, that time," added Joan.

Then the story of the mud and flood had to be told, while Mr. Gilroy sat
on the side-door of the car and directed the Captain which road to take
to reach his bungalow.

"Did our outfits get here all right, Mr. Gilroy?" asked Ruth.

"Yes, and they have been down at your camp several days now," replied
their host.

"How far is our camp from your bungalow, Mr. Gilroy?" asked Betty.

"Not very far--just a nice walk. Your camp is right on the shore of one
lake, while my bungalow is on the shore of First Lake, one of the Fulton
Chain, you know."

The scouts then learned that Mr. Gilroy's estate extended from First
Lake, where his bungalow was built, across country to Little Moose Lake
where their camp was to be. This was a distance of about three-quarters
of a mile between the two places.

"We'll stop at the bungalow first and give you a good square meal after
all your experiences; then we'll go on over to camp. When your baggage
is all out of the cars, Jim and I will drive back to my garage where the
machines can stand."

"Oh, Jim is going back home with Dad's car, to-morrow," said Ruth.

"And Verny is going to keep hers here for the summer," added Julie.

The cold luncheon had been waiting a long time, and when the scouts
finally arrived they did justice to the viands. Then, every one being
eager to see the new camp-site, they started for the Lake. Here
everything was in order to receive the tenants. Three fine tents, fully
equipped with every possible comfort for the campers, were waiting for
the girls, and a smaller tent for the Captain.

"Oh, how wonderful! Why, this won't be like roughing it," declared
several of the girls as they inspected their camp.

"Everything is ready but the fancy touches. You girls will have to add
them as your experiences pile up," said Mr. Gilroy.

"What do you mean?" asked Julie.

"Oh, collections of butterflies, flower-prints, willow-work, and
birchbark articles--all these are fancy touches."

It was late in the afternoon when the scouts arrived at the bungalow,
and it was twilight before they had their baggage all unpacked and in
their individual tents. Then when the cars were emptied and it was time
to drive them back to the garage, Mr. Gilroy said:

"As this is your first night, and everything is strange, you'd better
come back to the house for a light supper. Get your beds all ready to
turn into, and then let everything else go until morning."

Mrs. Vernon approved of this plan, so they finished their tasks and
jumped in the cars to drive back to the bungalow for the evening.
Darkness crept into the woods and everything was silent as they reached
the house.

While Jim followed the host to the garage with the cars, the scouts sat
on the verandah and enjoyed the quiet of the woods. The stars now began
to peep out of the deep blue that could be seen here and there through
the trees, and the Captain reminded the girls:

"Now that we are here for the summer, you must resume your study of the
stars. You dropped that, you know, when schoolwork took so much of your
time."

"Most of us know all the stars by heart, Verny," said Betty.

"The names of them, yes, but how many of you can find them as they are
placed in the sky?" returned Mrs. Vernon.

"I can show you where the Pole Star is. Look there!" replied Joan,
running out on the grass to find the bright point of light.

"And I can find Great Bear and The Pointers," added Ruth, joining her
friend on the grass.

The other scouts now jumped up from the verandah and ran to join the
first two, so the Captain followed, also.

"I know Alcor, Mizor, and the Square of Pegasus," said Amy.

"That panlike group of stars is known as Andromeda," added Julie, not
to be outdone by her chums. "And those three little stars are called The
Kids. Off to the left of Perseus--oh, I forgot to say that Perseus is a
group of stars at the end of the pan-handle,--well, to the left of them
are the bright stars known as Capella."

"Bravo! you scouts are going to be marvelous astronomers some day," came
the approving voice of Mr. Gilroy, as he joined them.

"I was just telling the girls they would have to take up the study of
the heavens again," mentioned Mrs. Vernon.

"And we were showing off to let the Captain hear how much we know,"
laughed Julie.

"Who can find The Lady in the Chair or The Guards?" asked Mr. Gilroy of
the scouts.

The girls eagerly sought for and described these groups, then their host
asked for the Seven Sisters and Demon's Eye. When they had answered
these, Ruth said:

"If the trees were not so thick I could show you Orion, Taurus, and lots
more, like the Lion, the Sickle, Canis Major, etc."

"Hoh! Some of those--and the Clown, the Ox-Driver, the Southern Cross,
and the Northern Cross--can't be seen at this time of year, Ruth," said
Julie.

Ruth frowned at the correction, but Mr. Gilroy quickly calmed the
troubled waters with praise for the girls.

"You scouts certainly know the stars better than the boys of Grey Fox
Troop. I should like to have the two Troops have a match game about the
stars, some time."

"Who are the Grey Fox boys, Mr. Gilroy?" asked Julie.

"Do you remember I told you, last summer, of some Boy Scouts who camped
in my woods every year? Well, four of those boys are here now. The rest
of the Troop are coming up in August, but these four have all summer to
camp in. I'm going to introduce you, soon."

"Verny, why can't we see all the stars all the year?" now asked Ruth.

"Because the earth turns on its axis, you know, so that certain planets
are out of sight for us, and are seen on the other side of the globe.
Then when the earth turns fully around we see them again."

"And the Pole Star is reckoned to be the center of the star-sky for all
the others to move about it. The Pole Star is always in the same fixed
place, so we can always locate it. But not so with the other stars,"
added Mr. Gilroy.

"I wish some one would tell us a story about the stars," Hester now
said.

"Who will tell one?" asked Mrs. Vernon.

"I know that Mizor and Alcor were used by the Turks in past days as a
test for eyesight. Soldiers who could not sight those two stars were
disqualified for fighting. But in these times I don't believe a little
thing like bad eyes will hold up a Turk from fighting!" said Julie,
comically.

Then Joan added: "The Pole Star and Ursa Major, or The Great Bear as it
is also called, form a shape like a wagon; so in olden times it was
called King Charles' Wain. Each star in this constellation is known by a
Greek letter. The two stars 'a' and 'b' are called the 'Pointers'
because they point to the Pole Star."

"Oh, I didn't mean lesson stuff, like this," complained Hester. "I meant
a real live legend!"

"You tell one, Verny," begged Betty, sweetly.

"Mr. Gilroy is better able to do it. Besides he is the host and is
supposed to entertain us," returned Mrs. Vernon, glancing at Mr. Gilroy,
who was stretched out comfortably upon the short grass.

"Your host claims to be completely disabled for the time being, Captain.
Pray proceed with the legend yourself," laughed Mr. Gilroy.

Then Mrs. Vernon said: "I never could see why Cassiopeia, or The Lady in
the Chair, should be named that. To me, the stars look more like a
tipped-over letter 'W' than a lady in a chair."

"Don't you know the story, Verny?" asked Julie, eagerly.

"You do, so why not tell us?" retorted the Captain.

"Oh, well, then, all right!" said Julie. So she began:

"Once there was an Ethiopian Queen, the wife of Cepheus, who was very
proud of their only child, a daughter named Andromeda. They were always
praising her and speaking of her beauty to every one, so that after a
time folks who also had lovely daughters felt jealous of the princess.

"In the depths of the Inner Sea, which is now the Mediterranean, lived
Old Nereus and a number of charming daughters. They heard of the Queen's
bragging about Andromeda, and they made up their minds to stop it. So
they got their father to help them.

"Then Nereus and the nymphs sent a flood of water over all the country
of which Cepheus was king, and devastated the kingdom. This caused
famine and pestilence, and in the wake of these awful plagues came a
sea-monster in the form of a dragon. This fearful beast bellowed----"

At that moment a deep thrilling call from some creature close by in the
forest-edge caused every one to jump, and they all huddled together.
They turned and stared apprehensively at the darkness behind them, but
Mr. Gilroy instantly whispered, "S-sh! Don't breathe, and you will see a
sight worth watching for."

The moon now sailed from back of the cloud that had obscured it for a
time, and its cold white light etched everything it touched. Again the
strange whistling call sounded directly back of the group, and a
crashing and tearing of underbrush ended with the sudden spring of a
fine buck, that landed him out on the grass not twenty feet from the
scouts.

At the same moment, a plaintive call came from the direction of Silver
Falls, which was up on the mountainside in front of the bungalow. The
buck lifted his gigantic antlers in the moonlight, and his sensitive
snout sniffed angrily as he sensed the invaders of his range; but
another imperative call from his mate at the Falls compelled him to
leave these usurpers; so he wheeled gracefully and, with an answering
call to let his doe know he was coming, trotted down the trail until he
reached the stream that came from Silver Falls, and there he disappeared
in the forest.

"What a wonderful sight!" breathed Mrs. Vernon, when the buck was gone.

The girls listened to the dying echoes of those pounding hoofs, and
sighed. Mr. Gilroy sat up and spoke eagerly, "That is the first buck
I've ever seen near my bungalow. There are deer in the Adirondacks, but
they seldom come near a habitation. It is said that they feed in the
barnyards in winter, looking for stray grain, but I am not here in
winter, you see."

"How I would have loved to have had a snapshot of him," said Julie,
sighing.

"You've all got it in your memory--the best place to frame a picture for
all time," replied Mrs. Vernon.

"You know, girls, there is an old hunter's saying, that goes: 'A deer to
welcome you on your first night will bring luck to you all that year,'"
said Mr. Gilroy, as he turned to lead the way into the bungalow.

"Wait, Mr. Gilroy; Julie never finished her story. She broke off just
where the beast bellowed--then came the buck!" said Joan.

"The deer finished the story better than we ever could," laughed the
Captain, as she followed Mr. Gilroy.

"But, at least, tell us what happened to those Nerieds?" asked Betty,
who wished to see the wicked punished.

So Mrs. Vernon had to end the story, although it was condensed in the
telling. But Betty persisted, "You haven't told us yet what the Nerieds
did when they found the wonderful Prince Perseus saved and married to
the Princess."

Every one laughed, but Julie replied, "Why, like most jealous people,
the Nerieds had to move away from town when every one found out how it
all had happened!"

The "bite" they had before leaving for camp would have been classed as
a first-class supper in the city restaurants, and then, when good-nights
were being said, the host gave Jim a laden basket to carry for the
scouts.

"You'll be glad of this in the morning, for breakfast. If you need
anything else, run over here and get it from my man who cooks,"
explained Mr. Gilroy.

But next morning, the contents of that basket were found to be more than
enough for any one breakfast. The fruit, cereal, biscuits, and ham to
broil, were highly appreciated by the hungry girls. This was soon gone,
and then Mrs. Vernon said they must buckle down to genuine camp life.

"I'd rather sleep out under the trees, Verny, when the weather is so
fine," suggested Julie.

"So would we," agreed the other scouts, and the Captain said, "Well, we
might make willow beds for out-of-doors, and keep the cots as they are."

"How do we know we can find any willows around here?" asked Ruth.

"I saw some early this morning when I was snooping about. I got up at
dawn and left you girls sleeping, while I investigated the premises.
Girls, the place is simply perfect for _anything_ we might choose to do
this summer," declared the Captain, enthusiastically.

"Tell us where the reeds are, and we will get them," said Betty.

"They grow about a spring not far from here. We must follow a
wild-animal trail along the lake to reach the spot."

So the scouts each took an axe and knife and followed the guide to the
willow-brook where the reeds grew. Mrs. Vernon showed the girls how to
select the wands, and then began to cut down her own. She took about six
dozen reeds as thick as a lead-pencil, and many smaller ones; these were
bundled together, and then she was ready to start back to camp. Finally
the girls were ready, also, and they trailed back.

"Now girls, each one must cut notches about three-fourths of an inch
from the butt-ends of the reeds. Then peel the sticks carefully--do not
crack or break them while doing it." Mrs. Vernon did hers as she
advised.

"Now come with me, and select your posts for the beds. I take four young
birch saplings for the bed-frame," announced Mrs. Vernon, as she chopped
down the required birches, "and stout birches about four inches thick
for my bedposts."

Each scout cut hers and then went back to the camp-ground to begin work
on the Indian beds.

"Every one measure the birch saplings and have two of them seven feet
long, and two shorter ones three or four feet long," instructed Mrs.
Vernon. "Lop off all the twigs, and place the two long ones for sides,
and the two short ones for top and bottom of the bed-frame.

"Now, this done, watch me carefully, girls. This is the important part
of making the bed," advised the Captain.

Mrs. Vernon took a ball of heavy twine and doubled a long strand so that
it was half-length. This was twisted into one strand, and a loop tied in
the middle. Many of these strands were stretched across the frame at
equal distances apart, until the entire frame had a warp across it.

"Now I'll weave in the reeds," said the Captain, taking one of the thin
willows and weaving it in and out of the cords. At the loop, the rod was
thrust through it to hold it centrally in place, then the weaving
process went on until the end of the frame was reached.

The weaving of each reed was done the same way until the whole frame was
crossed with willows held firmly in the middle by the loops in the
cords.

"Next thing, girls, I will cut the posts as I need them. I want them
about three feet high. One end of each post must be sharpened so it will
go down into the ground." This was done and the four stout birch posts
were driven firmly into the ground where Mrs. Vernon wanted her willow
bed to stand.

"And next, I tie a loop of heavy cord, or rope, about the top of each
post, in which I can hang my willow-frame." This was also done, and the
scouts helped place the woven mat in position.

"Well, isn't that simple, when you know how!" said Julie.

"Everything is, my dear," laughed Mrs. Vernon.

"Your bed is too wide for me. I don't want one four feet wide," said
Ruth.

"You can make it as wide, or as narrow, as you like. I think three feet
is wide enough for each girl," returned the Captain. "But the best of
these beds is, that when one is invited to visit, one can roll up the
mat easily and carry it along to sleep on. They are very light and not
cumbersome to roll and carry."

All that day was given to weaving the beds, and the scouts not only
enjoyed the novel employment, but had great fun in joking each other
over the work. About four o'clock that afternoon a shrill whistle was
heard from the trail that ran to the bungalow and soon thereafter Mr.
Gilroy was seen coming down towards camp.

"Hullo, there! I waited all morning for visitors, but at last decided to
come and see if my tenants had abandoned the premises!" explained he, as
he went over to the weavers to watch them.

"Now you understand why we couldn't visit," said Joan.

"I came over to ask how many of you have been fishing? And what did you
catch?" said he.

"No, we haven't fished yet. We planned to try it the very moment we are
through with these beds," replied Joan.

"Then perhaps you have not been near the lake-cove since you went
hunting for willows this morning," remarked Mr. Gilroy.

"The cove? I saw two boats there early this morning," said the Captain.

"And now there are two canoes there, also," added Mr. Gilroy.

"Oh, really! But how did you manage to get them there--by paddling in
from the lake?" asked Mrs. Vernon.

"No, I had them brought from my boathouse this morning. While Jim was
here, I made use of him by having him help Hiram carry two canoes over
to the boat-wagon, and then drive down here. Not a soul nor a sound was
seen or heard about the camp, so I surmised you had all gone on a lark.
Then we launched the canoes and tied them to a stump to surprise you
when you should go for the boats. We never dreamed you could keep away
from temptation so long as this."

"Goody! Then the first scout that finishes her bed can go and catch fish
for supper," declared Amy, who was the slowest of the weavers.

They all laughed teasingly, and soon afterwards, Julie cried, "I'm done!
Now for the fish!"

Joan and Ruth soon completed their beds, too, so Mr. Gilroy went out
with them to fish. That evening he was invited to sup with the scouts,
and a jolly time they had. In the evening, while sitting about the dying
campfire, he said to the girls:

"The first rainy day that comes along I want you all to come to the
bungalow and see my collection of moths, flowers, birds, and
butterflies. I have a fine exhibit of butterflies, among them are rare
specimens that have seldom been found in these mountains. You scouts
will want to start collecting after you see what I have done."

"I shall be delighted to look at them, as I have always wanted my girls
to do something along those lines," said Mrs. Vernon.

"If you know anything about butterflies, you will prize the specimen of
swallow-tail I found in these woods," said Mr. Gilroy.

"Really! But I've heard they were never found in America, Mr. Gilroy,"
exclaimed Julie.

"I know that is a common belief, but I have one, nevertheless, and a
friend who devotes his time to studying insect-life assured me that the
one I caught was genuine. Then, the very next day this friend caught one
quite near the place where mine was taken. This led us to investigate,
and we reached the conclusion that there are rare butterflies hatched
out in isolated sections of this land, but are not found; so, of course,
no mention is made of them.

"Even if the farmers see a swallow-tail, or any other rare butterfly
hovering over their gardens, they don't know the difference, and it
passes safely. If that same farmer knew the value of the specimen he
would leave all else to chase the gauzy flutterer."

When it came time for the visitor to say good-night, he said, "Oh, I
forgot all about the very object of my visit!"

"It must have been awfully important," laughed Julie.

"Well, _we_ think it is," chuckled Mr. Gilroy. "The boys of Grey Fox
Camp sent me to invite you to have dinner with them to-morrow, if it is
clear."

"Why, Mr. Gilroy!" exclaimed Julie, scarcely believing her idol could
forget such an important matter.

Every one laughed at his guilty look, and Judith teasingly said, "We
ought to call him 'The Man Who Lost His Memory,' for that!"

"All fooling aside, scouts, I have a suggestion to make on that very
remark. I've wanted to mention it before, but always there was some
exciting or important matter that could not be interrupted. Now I wish
you girls would stop 'mistering' me! I am such an old friend by this
time, I should think I could be to you as much as the Captain is. She is
'Verny' instead of 'Mrs. Vernon.'"

Julie was ready with an answer before he had quite finished his
complaint. "Oh, we would love to give you a pet name, Gilly, because you
do mean as much to us as our best friends anywhere. By taking a few
letters away from your proper name and adding a little 'nick' to the
syllable, we have one ready-made."

"Fine! 'Gilly' it shall be henceforth!" laughed Mr. Gilroy.

"But it is so disrespectful, I think," remonstrated Mrs. Vernon.
"Couldn't we find some other affectionate term that will do without
impressing strangers with our lack of courtesy to our friend?"

"Why do you object to 'Gilly?'" asked Mr. Gilroy, quizzically.

"I can't really find any tangible excuse, except that it makes me think
of gilly-flowers, you know," laughed Mrs. Vernon.

Every one joined in the laughter, but Mr. Gilroy said seriously, "Well,
I am not old enough to be 'Granny' to the girls and I dare not request
to be called 'Daddy' by them, or their rightful parents will call me out
to fight a duel, so do let us leave it 'Gilly.' The boys of Grey Fox
always wanted to use a friendlier name than a 'Mr.' but they never came
to it. Now we will begin the habit."

Before Mr. Gilroy left the camp, the name was established.

They were to meet at Mr. Gilroy's bungalow early in the morning, so he
could start them on the right trail. He was going over in the car with
supplies for the boys, but the hikers preferred the novelty of
adventuring on foot.

Early the following morning, breakfast being cleared away, each scout
was advised to take an axe, a clasp-knife, a bit of twine, a tin cup,
and some waterproof matches.

"But why should we bother with such stuff?" asked Amy.

"One never knows whether one will arrive at the right destination or
not. Should we get lost, we at least have something with which to get a
meal," said the Captain.

"Are you going to carry that little bag of flour?" asked Hester,
curiously.

"Yes, and a strip of bacon that is wrapped in the paper. I'm not going
to starve, if worst comes to worst," laughed Mrs. Vernon.

"A lot of good a strip of bacon will do for ten of us!" said Judith. But
she had not been with the scouts when they camped at Verny's Mountain
the foregoing summer.

When Mr. Gilroy heard about the bacon and flour, he laughed. "Why, it is
only two or three hours' tramp over the ridge, and a big dinner will be
waiting when you get there."

Mrs. Vernon held her peace, but carried the bacon and flour just the
same. She was not to be jeered out of what she knew to be a wise act,
whether the food would be needed or not.




CHAPTER FOUR

A VISIT TO GREY FOX CAMP


Each girl wore hiking boots, her camp uniform, and carried a light pack
containing the ax, cup, knife and matches. A few of the girls, secretly
following the Captain's example, packed a strip of bacon and crackers,
or other eatables in their packs. Mr. Gilroy saw them safely started on
the right trail, and then drove away in his car. He followed a
woodcutters' road that wound around the mountain, but the scouts were to
use the trail that ran over the crest to the boys' camp.

The scouts were brimming over with spirits (Julie said, "not the kind
made in the moonshine, either"), and spent so much time examining
flowers or watching wonderful birds that the time sped by unawares. The
trail led through small clearings where a brook or waterfall made life
worth living. But the higher they climbed the more rugged grew the
trail, until there were long stretches that seemed to be sheer
wilderness.

At such places, the scouts had to hunt about and find a blaze to guide
them further. In this way, the hours passed and noon came; still the
hikers were far from Grey Fox Camp.

"And I'm starved to pieces!" Joan assured them all.

"So'm I!" admitted Ruth. Then it was learned that every one present
would appreciate something to eat.

"But what? We only brought flour and bacon," laughed Amy.

"How would a fine juicy steak taste about this time?" asked Mrs. Vernon,
winking at her old scouts. They knew what she meant.

"Oh, 'Home and Mother'!" sighed Judith, rolling her eyes heavenward.

Every one laughed, but the Captain added: "I really mean it! We may as
well stop now to cook that steak as to keep on in a half-fainting
condition."

"But, Verny! We didn't bring one bit of meat to camp, and the butcher
drives his rounds once a week," cried Amy.

"We'll just hunt around and chop down a steak," suggested Mrs. Vernon.
"Who wants to go with me to find the wooden animal that grows a steak
ready-made?"

Of course, they all went, except Julie and Joan who remained to build a
fire and start the bacon sizzling in the tiny pan. A scout-twist of
flour and water was kneaded by Joan and put to bake near the fire, and
then the girls sat and waited for the others to return.

The Captain blazed a way slowly into the forest wilderness, peering
under bushes and wherever a tree had been cut down--on its stump of a
trunk she always looked eagerly. After about ten minutes' search she saw
what she wanted.

"Ah! Here it is--a porterhouse, this time."

The new members saw a great chestnut stump, its jagged spears of wood
protesting against its untimely end. But all over the trunk grew
fungi--some larger, some smaller, and all of the same flat horizontal
shape, like a huge palm-leaf. These were carefully removed and handed to
the girls to carry.

"What are they for?" asked Judith, looking at the red juice that ran
over her fingers when she took the fungus.

"That's your steak--think it is too big for one?"

"The what?" exclaimed the other new members, skeptically.

"Beefsteak mushroom--finest steaks ever tasted," came reassuringly from
the Captain. "The ones growing on a chestnut stump are always the
sweetest, but the chestnut trees are disappearing so fast that soon we
will have no such mushrooms from them."

When they had gathered enough steaks for that meal, they returned to the
clearing where Julie and Joan awaited them. On the way back, Mrs.
Vernon showed the scouts the earmarks of the beefsteak mushroom.

"When I cut these from the tree they bled exactly as flesh will bleed
when it is cut. Now turn them over and you will see on the under side
that they have veins of red. That is the life-sap. We will broil or cook
them exactly as if they were steaks and then you shall judge of their
flavor."

"Isn't it thrilling to think that man can go right into any wilderness
and, without carrying food, clothing, or shelter, live with what Nature
provides," remarked Judith.

"Yes, and without paying the outrageous prices charged at the present
time for actual necessities," replied the Captain.

The bread-twist was baked, and when the steaks were washed and sliced,
Mrs. Vernon dropped them into the hot fat tried out from the bacon.
Immediately the smell of frying steak made every scout smack her lips in
anticipation.

"If we weren't sure of such a fine dinner awaiting us, I would have had
a few of you girls gather young bracken for a fresh green vegetable to
eat with our steak. But we must not stop and enjoy too much by the
wayside," said the Captain.

There was a liberal slice of steak for each one and the girls pronounced
the taste of it delicious.

"And so tender, too! I never had such a juicy bit of meat," said
Hester.

Having refreshed themselves considerably, with the fun of finding the
mushrooms and cooking them, to say nothing of eating them, also, the
scouts continued the hike along the trail. Just as they reached the
crest of the mountain, Julie came suddenly upon a fawn, standing in the
shadow of a tree; it was watching these queer two-legged creatures.

It is hard to say which was most surprised, Julie or the deer, but the
fawn recovered first and bounded away through the forest.

"Oh, shucks! There we've gone and left that camera home again!" cried
Julie, stamping her foot angrily.

"Wouldn't that have made the most wonderful picture!" added Judith.

"No use crying now, but, for goodness sake! Julie, remember to bring it
next time," said Joan.

"Let _every one_ remember--the last thing to do when we start anywhere,
every one is to say to herself: 'Remember the _Maine_!' then we will
surely take the camera," giggled Julie.

The scouts now began descending the other side of the crest, and found a
better trail than on the side they came up. So, being able to go faster,
they soon reached a lovely camp-site, where the voices of several boys
announced that Grey Fox Camp was reached.

"We were just being sworn in as deputies to go out and hunt for strayed
or stolen scouts," called Mr. Gilroy, jocularly, as the girls picked
their way down from the great rocks that formed a wall back of the
camp-ground; then he introduced the two Troops to each other.

"You told us it was about a two-hours' hike!" said Ruth, shaking her
head at Mr. Gilroy, as if in despair of saving his soul.

"Well, so it is, when the boys are in a hurry to get to the bungalow."

"We've been five hours coming, and had to stop for lunch along the way,
too," said Judith, eager to talk about the beefsteak.

The boys stared. "Why, you were to have dinner with us! Didn't Mr.
Gilroy tell you that?"

"Yes, but we couldn't wait so long. We're ready for more dinner, now,"
said Joan.

"What did you cook for luncheon?" asked Alec, the oldest boy in the
Troop.

"Oh, only a beefsteak-mushroom and a scout-twist," returned Julie,
nonchalantly.

The boys exchanged glances. "Did you find the mushrooms along the way?"
asked another boy named Bob.

"Sure! Did you think they came preserved?" laughed Joan.

"No, but _we_ have never found any on this side of the hill. Bob often
goes out to hunt, but so far we've never seen any," explained another
boy, Ned Thompson.

"When we go back, you can go with us a ways, and we will show you where
we found the ones we had for luncheon," said Betty.

"Is dinner ready, boys, or will there be time to show the girls about
the camp?" asked Mr. Gilroy.

"Show them about, as it will take us ten minutes more to finish
everything in style," replied Alec.

So the girl scouts were invited to pass judgment on the fine camp the
boy scouts had made. Everything was neat as wax, and the boys had
constructed many convenient articles from wildwood material only.

"Last year we had eight boys in camp, but this season only four could
come in the beginning; so they have lots of room in their big tee pee.
When the other boys come out, they will have to make another tent. They
made and water-proofed this one themselves," explained Mr. Gilroy,
showing the visitors the fine big tent.

"They built this dining-room, too, to use if the weather is very bad. I
told the boys about your corduroy floor that you made in your huts last
summer, so they tried it here with very good result."

The girl scouts now saw their own idea put into use in a different
manner. The log floor was hard and dry, but at each corner rose a stout
pole, and upon the tops of the four pole ends was stretched a canvas
roof, making a shelter underneath.

"Girls, we ought to do the same thing, to use for meal time when it
rains, or if the rays of the sun are too hot," observed Mrs. Vernon.

Mr. Gilroy then pointed out to the girls how careful the boys had been
in selecting this camp-site. They had high, dry ground, near plenty of
fine spring water, on the same lake where the girl scouts camped, but an
arm of high land extended out into the water and separated the two
camps.

"You see, they have ample firewood about without cutting down any trees;
they get the early morning sun, and shade all the rest of the day. They
ditched the entire place to carry off all the rainwater that might wash
down from the crest during a heavy storm. And they built a refrigerator
to keep things cold; and over there they have a chicken-coop."

"A chicken coop! where did they get the chickens?" asked Julie.

"Ned had some at home and he crated them and brought them along. The
boys get fresh eggs in this way, and when the season is over, they will
kill the hens for a special occasion and eat them."

"Verny, that's what we need, a few chickens in camp," was Joan's
decision, the moment she saw the hens scratching.

"I noticed Gilly had a lot of chickens running about the barnyard. Maybe
he will loan us a few, just to provide us with eggs this summer. We can
return them in the fall, you know," ventured Julie, daringly.

"Who will buy their corn?" asked he, laughingly.

"No one. We will feed them scraps and they can scratch!" promptly
replied Julie.

"You'll starve them and then they won't lay any eggs," now said Alec,
joining the party.

"We'll smile on Hiram and get him to bring us some corn from the barn,
now and then," said Ruth.

"I came over to tell you dinner was ready to serve. We had better go
now, and eat it while it's good," said Alec.

The boys had various things hanging over the fire, but the great novelty
that caught the girl scouts' attention, at once, was the roaster upon
which a nice brown chicken was swinging before the fire.

"There! That's a fine idea. How did you make it?" asked Mrs. Vernon,
looking closely at the contraption.

Alec described to the Captain the method of making the roaster. "We took
a forked stick, as you see there, of about a two-foot length. We drove
that down into the ground about six inches. Next we took a long pole,
six or eight feet long, and drove the end down into the ground just back
of the short stick with the forks. It rested in the crotch made by the
forks so that its tapering end slanted upward at an angle, as you see
here.

"From the end of this long pole we hung the cord that holds the chicken.
Wire is just as good to use. Then we arranged that flat, paddle-like
fan halfway between the top and the rope end where the roast will hang.
As your chicken roasts before the fire, that mill-fan keeps it
perpetually turning about so it browns alike all over."

Julie wanted to make one like it as soon as they went back to their own
camp, so she hastily sketched a model.

"It is a great stunt, all right, and we've cooked many dandy roasts this
way, and never scorched any," said Bob, when Alec concluded his
description.

The dinner began with oyster-mushroom stew, then they had roast chicken,
baked wild-potatoes, stewed bracken that tasted exactly like young
spinach, dandelion salad, and scout cakes for dessert.

It was mid-afternoon when the girls finally said good-by to their hosts,
and invited them soon to visit Dandelion Camp. They started on the
return hike, but when they reached the highest boulder back of the camp,
the scouts stood and waved good-by again.

"Come as soon as you can, but give us a whole day's warning, first!"
shouted Julie, to the four smiling boys below.

They made much better time going back, as the trail from Grey Fox Camp
was plain, and going down the other side of the crest was much simpler
than climbing up. They got back to their own camp by seven o'clock, and
were surprised to find Mr. Gilroy there before them, with supper all
ready to eat.

"Well, this sure is good of you!" sighed Julie, dropping upon the grass
with healthy fatigue.

"I thought you'd appreciate it; I had no exercise to-day, except what I
got running the car, so I decided to 'do a good turn' and digest that
dinner at the same time," said he.

After supper, which was unusually late that night, the tired scouts and
their visitor were sitting about the campfire hoping some one would tell
a story, when Julie spoke:

"Last summer, Gilly said he would tell us all sorts of Indian legends
when we visited camp in the Adirondacks. Now we're here and this is the
right sort of an evening to tell them."

The other scouts seconded the suggestion, but Mr. Gilroy said: "Funny,
but I don't remember that promise."

"I told you you've got an awful memory--didn't I want to dub you 'The
man-with-a-poor-memory?'" teased Judith.

The guest sat gazing silently into the fire for a few minutes, then he
began:

"I'm going to tell you a story that is told by the Alaskan Indians.
These ancient legends have been handed down from one generation to
another, but the original goes back before the days of Moses. I was
deeply interested in a few of these tales because they sounded so much
like our story of Creation as told in Genesis, that I wondered if a
white missionary had sown his seeds of Christianity in the fertile soil
of the Alaskan Esquimaux' mind.

"But as far as I could ascertain this legend was told many hundreds of
years before white man ever stepped on Alaskan ground. Recently I
learned that Iceland has similar legends, and it may be that the Alaskan
Esquimaux are descended from those of Iceland. It is well known that
Iceland is the oldest civilized land in the world--that it was famous
for its learning before the days of Solomon the Wise."




CHAPTER FIVE

A STORY OF CREATION*

A Legend of Raven

    *This legend, given in various ways by different tribes of
     the Icelandic and Alaskan Indians, each with its own variations,
     but all with one thread of similarity woven through the
     tales--was partly interpreted and grouped by the author into
     the legend that appears in this book. It is said to date back
     thousands of years before Abraham and our Bible. Acknowledgments
     for original texts and tales are due the Smithsonian
     Institute.


"No one knows just how Raven first came to be, and we have many
different beginnings to start from, but in Sitka we know that Raven
never had beginning nor will he have an ending.

"Raven was always the All-in-all, and, as he knew all things and made
all, he began to wish to have a form of his wisdom that, too, would live
on with him forever. So it was that he made him a son to help in the
creation. And the son's name, also, was Raven. And now it is of Raven,
Son of Raven, that we speak.

"Raven was instructed in every form of knowledge and he was trained in
every wise thing, so that when he grew up he would have everything
necessary to make a glorious world, where all beautiful wishes and every
good idea would be objectified, and would remain forever a praise and
prayer to Raven, the Father Creator.

"So Raven made the world, but he found there was no light with which to
show the beauty and form of what he had created. Then, after deep
thinking, he remembered his father to have said that there was a large
lodge far up the Nass where One kept all the Light that ever could be
found.

"Raven tried many ways in which to reach this house on the Nass, but the
way was unknown to every one, so he wandered afar, seeking for the true
trail. One day he helped an old lame man along the path and, for
gratitude, the old man said: 'You seek the One of Nass who keeps the
Light?'

"Raven replied, 'Yea, for many days have I sought Him.'

"Then the lame old man smiled a strange smile, and said, 'I know of but
one way to bring this great Light into the world you made, and that way
is to send forth that Light through the daughter of the One with the
Light.'

"'But, Brother, how do I know there is such a daughter? And if there be,
how shall I receive the Light through her?'

"'O Raven, thou art a great creator! Thy father is All-in-all of the
North, and the daughter of Light will joyously send forth this Light you
need to show the beauties of your world,' said the old wayfarer.

"'Then tell me this, O Brother, for I seem not to know how to reach the
Virgin of the Light, despite all the wisdom I have been taught,'
anxiously begged Raven.

"'Then hark to my words, O Son of Raven: I will turn you into a small
drop of water, and fly with you over the House of Light. As I pass the
pool whence comes the water for drink, I will drop you into a glass the
Virgin holds ready to quaff. Then you will know what to do.'

"Raven showed his surprise, for he had believed the old man to be lame
and helpless, and now he found he was a Wise Man who could find his way
wheresoever he would go.

"Then the old man, with the wonderful drop of water held carefully in
his palm, flew over the House of Light, and passed low down over the
pool where the Virgin stood ready to drink.

"As she raised the cup to her lips, the drop of pure water which had
been Raven, fell into the liquid, and she drank all that the vessel
held.

"Now this drop of clear water grew and became a man-child, and the
Virgin knew she was to bring forth the Light unto the World, that all
might enjoy the beauties of creation. So she was happy and praised Raven
and the Father of Raven, day and night, for having given himself to
become a little drop of water that the Light might be born.

"When the time came for the Light to be revealed, the Virgin prepared a
royal bed of furs of great value for the Man of Light to be born on.
But the babe struggled and refused to be born in a state of riches, and
he whispered to the Virgin: 'The world of joy and riches needs me not,
but the world of sorrow and darkness needs me. I will shed this Light on
such as are heavyladen and weary.' So the Virgin knew the Light must be
born in meekness and humility, that all brothers could find Raven
without pomp or pay.

"So the birthplace was lined with common Iceland moss, and the child of
Light was born thereon. The moss-bed was made up in a room that had been
used for the humblest things in the Great House of Light: that is, for
the storing of queer bundles, some large, some small, and all of various
shapes and colors. And when the babe looked around at the walls of his
birthplace, his eyes shone like stars and a heavenly smile beamed from
his face, for _he_ knew what those bundles contained!

"As the child waxed strong and beautiful, the mother saw that it yearned
for something she had not hitherto given him, so a servant was ordered
to seek everywhere and find what it was the babe craved.

"Finally, the attendant moved a bundle that hung at the farthest end of
the room. And as he did so, the child laughed and his eyes shone
brightly.

"'Bring that bundle here--it is what the Babe wanted!' declared the
mother. So the unwieldy bundle was placed upon the bed.

"The mother carefully removed a wrapper, but found still others to undo.
Finally all the wrappers were taken away and but one remained. This was
of a wonderful shimmering material such as no one had ever beheld
before. The mother reverently opened this cover, and lo! there lay
revealed all the Stars of Heaven!

"The Child gurgled with joy, and took the corner of the shimmering cover
and drew it, with the contents, over to himself. He looked upwards, and
with a wonderful expression in his sweet face, suddenly flung the bright
cover and all the Stars it held, up through the smoke-hole of the lodge.

"With a happy, joyous laugh, he watched the Stars scatter far and wide
to rest finally in the Firmament, and there they shine to this very day!

"The Virgin Mother then knew that this child truly was Raven, the Son of
Raven, and she commanded every one to bow down in worship, for he had
been given the power to bring Light to the world of darkness, and no
more would darkness cover the people.

"Soon after the Stars were fixed in the Firmament of Heaven, the child
again yearned and seemed to pine for something. But now the mother knew
what had to be done, so she commanded an attendant to take down the
bundle that hung in the corner whence the Stars came.

"This bundle was brought over to the mother, but it was smaller than the
first bundle that had held all the Stars. The Mother carefully undid the
many wrappings of this bundle, and found the last covering was made of a
filmy frosty texture which had no opening or end that might be unrolled.

"But the child held out his hands eagerly for the bundle, and the moment
it had been given him, he found the secret opening and then unrolled the
cover. When the last frosty bit of gauzy cloud fell away from the
contents so carefully preserved, every one exclaimed in wonder at the
beauty they beheld. There was a big Moon, cool and shining, then as now!

"The child clapped his hands with delight, and wafted the Moon with its
frosty gauze covering up through the smoke-hole of the room and it
became fixed as the Stars, to give light through the hours of darkness,
that the earth need not stumble and fall upon a black pathway.

"The third bundle was great and difficult to reach, but the child cried
for it and the servants had to work and struggle to reach it, until
finally, down it came. And as it fell, it sent forth sparks of strange
fire that consumed not a thing, yet prevented any servant from handling
the bundle.

"The child laughed and clapped his hands, but finding no one could hold
the flaming bundle, he crept over and took it. The mother stood
affrighted lest the Child of Light be consumed. But he unwrapped each
covering himself, and when the last dazzling wrapper was revealed, no
human being durst gaze upon that Light. But he who was born of Light
looked upon what was hidden in that covering and flung all up through
the smoke-hole to take its place in the Firmament of Heaven, where it
shines like unto a Sun--to-day, as in those days. And it was given the
world to shed its rays of Light upon the earth by day, even as the Moon
shines for Light by night, and the Stars sing for joy and gladness that
Light came to the world.

"After the Sun, and Moon, and Stars were made, this man-child did many
wonderful things that astonished all who came to the House of Light to
hear and see such a marvelous being. But there was still one bundle left
hanging in a very gloomy corner of the birth-chamber, and this bundle
was left until the child grew to the stature of a man. Then he demanded
that it be given him.

"'No, no, my son,' wept the mother, 'do not ask for that--it contains
Death.'

"'Know then that _I_ know it,' returned the young man, seriously.
'Knowest thou not why I came to be born of the Light? Not only that the
world might have eternal Light, but also to dispel all darkness that
Eternal Life might come through the overcoming of this Death.

"'The Light I had, and the Light I gave, but through forever closing the
gates of Death to the world I forever fix this Light of Life in the
Heavens that no one can darken it more.'

"The mother wept for she knew her son must die if he took down that
bundle, but he replied: 'For this great mission was I sent to you that,
through you, should be given birth to Light, and thus establish for all
time the Light for the world.'

"Sorrowing, the mother herself took down the bundle and brought it to
her son, and no servant might remain in the room when Raven, Son of
Raven, removed the coverings of Death. As the last wrapper was removed
and the mother saw the heavy shroud that folded itself clingingly about
the ghastly contents of that bundle, she ran weeping from the room, for
she dared not watch her son accept it.

"So the birth-room remained closed while Raven fought with Death, but
after three shinings of the Sun, and three shinings of the Moon, and
with the shining of the Stars as they sang softly, a blinding Light
shone through all the walls of the House of Light, and the mother with
her attendants ran to open the door of the birth-chamber, now called the
Room of Death. But behold! the man Raven himself was revealed in shining
raiments, shining like the Sun, and he smiled upon those who fell down
in awe at sight of him.

"'I have destroyed Death for all, and now I go to shine in the Heavens
with this Light of Life that was given me. All who will may follow where
I go,' said Raven.

"'And at that, he rose through the smoke-hole and took his place in
Heaven, but his Light shone then and shines now into every corner of
darkness in the world. And the day is come when there is no more
darkness, for rich and poor, good and bad, and every created thing made
by Raven, see the Light that transforms everything into lights that find
their places in the Firmament of Heaven.'

"Raven, Son of Raven, sat hidden in the Great Light that he received
when Death was overcome, but he saw that the earth was without form.
Then he desired to create seas and mountains upon the face of the void,
and he sat thinking and thinking for many a time.

"Suddenly he remembered that in the House of Light there was a wonderful
pool of clear water. So he sent a ray from the Sun down through the
clouds and thereby drew up enough water to drink. But he did not swallow
the cooling water. He held it in his mouth and flew with it over the
whole earth which was void of form.

"He spat forth a drop of this water and it became the source of the
River Nass. Another drop from his mouth became the Stikine River, and
the third drop became the Taku River. Then followed the Chilkat, the
Alsek, and finally, all the great rivers of the North.

"But Raven found he would need more water for seas and oceans and lakes,
so he sat again, and by thinking and thinking he received the idea.

"It was not according to his wish to send a sunbeam to the pool of
eternal water in the House of Light, to bring up more of that pure water
to him, and he was happy when he conceived the idea that came to him.
And this it was:

"'If the rivers I made, run on eternally because their source came from
the House of Light, why shall I not guide them all to one great
meeting-place and call that the Ocean? But as they run to this one rest,
even so will I give them smaller rests along the way, and at these
resting-places they may spread out upon the bosom of the earth. These
rests will I call Lakes. Then there will come times when the Ocean,
which is continually filled from the eternal source of the Rivers, must
needs overflow its boundaries. And these overflows will fill up the
great holes in the earth. So these I will call Seas.

"'Even as the Sun sent his ray to carry me the drink from the pool that
is in the House of Light, so will I command the Sun and the Moon and the
Stars to govern the waters of the earth, and thus the Lights in the
Firmament of the Heavens will draw up any surplus overflows, that these
may turn to moisture in the cloudy coverings that wrapped the Lights
before they became fixed in the Firmament. The Clouds will rain down
refreshing drink upon all lands on the earth, that all things may
replenish themselves and so live eternally, in one grand bond of
Brotherhood, loving and helping each other, from the Great to the Small,
and from Small to Great.'

"And it was as Raven desired. So to this day, the Sun and Moon and all
the Stars work together in harmony to keep the Rivers and Lakes, and
Seas, and Ocean within their bounds and to replenish all things.

"But Raven found afterwhile that so much water flowing ceaselessly from
the Source, and the rain that fell from the Clouds upon the land, made
the earth so wet that it was not a good place to dwell upon. Then he
began to think and think again, of how he might create something to dry
up the surplus moisture.

"Now he was walking by a great ocean, one day, still thinking of plans
to dry away any unpleasant dampness, when he saw a Petrel sitting on a
rocky promontory.

"'Brother,' called Raven to the bird, 'how came you here?'

"'I? Oh, I was born when the waters were sent to earth. How came you
here--and where were you born?' asked the Petrel.

"'I? Oh, I was born before the world was thought of, so I have no
beginning and no end,' replied Raven.

"'Ha! Tis well said, but rings not true,' the Petrel jeered. 'No one
ever was before this world was created, and no one ever shall remain
when this world ends.'

"'I am Raven, Son of Raven, and because you know not the Truth of
Creation, but believe the Lie, you shall henceforth go about in a fog.
Your name shall be earth-made, and you shall dream dreams in this fog,
but you may not see the Light until that day when the whole world shall
be freed from all forms of darkness!'

"And instantly, a fog-cover fell over Petrel, because he knew not the
Truth told by Raven, Son of Raven. And the fog so hid from the eyes of
Petrel the Sun and Moon and Stars that came from the House of Light,
that he believed _them_ to be controlled by a Lie, also.

"But Raven learned that the fog he had called forth from the waters on
the earth made the place still more moist and not good for a place of
sojourn. Then he planned to dry it away quickly.

"Petrel, the earth-bound, was left groping in the fog for the Truth he
had scorned and now could not find, and Raven passed to a place where he
saw something floating on the wave not far from shore. He failed to
recognize it as of his creating, so he wished to reach it.

"While looking about for something to use to reach it, he saw a bird
with a very long bill, watching him. This bird was not like anything he
had created so he knew it must be an offspring of the fog, mist-made,
and related to Petrel.

"Raven then commanded this bird, 'Fly out over the water and bring back
yon floating object.'

"The bird with a long bill was a chicken-hawk, and it lived by killing
weaker and smaller birds than itself. Raven knew this was its way the
moment he saw it was mist-made, and so he sent it on this errand.

"The chicken-hawk dared not refuse to go after the bright object
floating on the wave, but he said to himself, 'I'll drop it if it is not
good for me to carry!'

"Raven knew this evil intent, and said, 'When you have taken hold of the
object, do not drop it till you have brought it ashore.'

"So the chicken-hawk left in no good humor, and flew out to the wave,
where he found a mass of fire floating there. He was a coward, such as
all mist-made creatures are, and he feared to bring in the great ball of
fire, yet he dared not disobey the command of a superior being like
Raven. So he tore off a mouthful only, and that is how he came to be so
badly burned. Had he caught hold of the whole mass of flame, the
outside of which really had been cooled as it rolled about upon the
waves, he could have escaped without an injury.

"He brought the piece of fire to shore, and Raven said, 'Because you
were cowardly and obeyed me only through fear, your beak shall remain
forever burned off and short as it now is.'

"And so it is to this day, and shall be until Light redeems all things.

"Raven then took some chips of red cedar and some white stones, and
mixed them in the fire. These were distributed over all the earth, so
that many great forests grew up from the cedar shavings, and thus
absorbed the surplus moisture on the land. And mighty volcanoes were
formed of the red-hot stones, and these, in consuming the water under
the surface, steamed and spewed forth the massive rocks and varied-hued
stones that gave peaks and cliffs as pleasant places for deer and sheep
to roam upon.

"Thus, with the face of the earth so beauteous, Raven sat down and
rejoiced. But Petrel and Chicken-hawk were left to wander in the fog.

"Finally, Raven's mother died, and he sorrowed greatly, for she saw not
the Great Light that he had established to overcome the darkness of
Death. Still, because she had always dwelt in the House of Light and had
given birth to Raven, Son of Raven, she was given an honorable place in
the Firmament of Heaven.

"And Raven, as the custom was in the realm where his mother had lived,
prepared a great feast in honor of his mother. But he began thinking how
he might honor her in a different way. So he cut a witch-hazel wand with
which to point at anything he wished to use in the preparation of this
feast. Thus he collected wood and stones and many things on the face of
the earth. And when all this was assembled he built him a great house.

"Then he called the rain and sunshine to hide the house until he was
ready for the feast. He then sat down to think and think, and this is
what he thought, and what came of it.

"'I want fish to swim in the waters, and birds to fly in the skies, and
creatures to live in the forests, and beings to live on the land, to be
found in this house when it is opened. And they will all be perfect,
lovely, and good, to live with this creation I have made.'

"Thus, having thought all these things, Raven stood up and stretched out
his hand that held the wand, and pointed it over the house that was
hidden as yet by rain and clouds.

"And, suddenly, the rain ceased its downpour, the sun smiled, and the
house stood revealed in all its beauty. Then Raven sang:

"'This made I for an honor to my mother!'

"And as he sang his song of honor and praise, the house opened and all
manner of living creatures came forth--beautiful, perfect, and an honor
to the earth upon which they would dwell.

"So it is that even to this day, when one makes a feast to honor a dead
person who will sit in a place in the firmament, the house of the living
is opened to all, from the greatest to the least of the earth.

"When the feast was over Raven wished to leave an eternal monument to
his mother, the Virgin who gave birth to the Light, so he called to him
the four winds to help.

"'South Wind, in the spring and summer when all the sun's rays are warm,
blow gently upon the earth and sing of my mother.'

"'North Wind, sit on top of the ice-mountain yonder, and when the earth
is chill and sorrowing for my mother, blow fiercely from your snow-laden
hills and sing over her grave.'

"'East Wind, when the earth-people weep salt-water over the biers of
their dead, and sigh because of their loss, sing to them of my mother.'

"'West Wind, when you blow gently, and tell the earth that storms and
cold and sorrow may come but Light shines in the end to bring them joy
and peace, sing low and sweetly of my mother.'

"Thus the four winds came to earth to sing to the peoples dwelling here,
and every one heard of the mother who gave birth to Light--Raven, Son
of Raven.

"But after all these things were done, Raven sat down and thought and
thought deeply, and as he thought he called upon his father, the Great
Raven, the All-in-all, for advice.

"And having received advice, Raven stood up and lifted his hands to the
Heavens, and sang with a loud voice:

"'I shall make men in my image and likeness, and they shall dwell in the
Light and be given dominion over all this earth I have made for my joy
and pleasure. Thus we shall be happy and live forever!'

"So Raven made all men like unto himself. They were good and perfect and
beautiful and they all dwelt in love in the Light. And thus they dwelt
many, many days, and were happy.

"But the fog which had been called out for Petrel's error harbored many
birds of evil omen, and these, guided by Petrel, swept through the fog
and attacked the Men of the Light. The fog covered all things and caused
every one to grope about, seeking to find one another and escape from
the mist that hid the Shining Light.

"And thus any one who had the slightest degree of fear or greed or
malice or lying in his heart, breathed in the fog and thenceforth lived
in a dream. They were thenceforth born of the fire of wrath that the
Chicken-hawk tore apart from the floating mass, and were consumed with
fear. They lived their days in the fog that came upon Petrel when he
believed a lie, and they suffered and sorrowed and died, all in a dream
caused by the fog; and afterwhile these mist-men forgot there ever had
been a perfect earth created by Raven, Son of Raven, where love and
beauty and joy rule everything.

"So Petrel ruled his world of fog, where hate and sin and death were his
servants, and thus it happened that a Petrel is the sign of storm and
trouble and blinding mist, but the Raven is known to be wise and patient
for it knows where its Light dwells.

"So Raven sits, and patiently waits for Petrel's dreams to lose
themselves in the fog, for such will surely come about. And as the
Lights ruled by Raven shine stronger, the fog grows fainter and still
lighter, until breaks the Day when all mist vanishes and Raven's
Creation is seen forever beautiful and perfect."

When Mr. Gilroy concluded his beautiful legend, the scouts were silent.
It was the greatest praise they could bestow at the moment, for the
story was not one to call forth applause and noise. Then they began to
speak, but in soft voices.

"And to think that this story of creation, so similar in many ways to
our Bible Stories, was handed down from ancient days," remarked Mrs.
Vernon, thrilled by the realization.

"I find many interesting similarities between our Bible and the Holy
Legends reverently told by the Esquimaux. But this one always struck me
as being as fine as any. That is why I told it," explained Mr. Gilroy.

Then their Camp Entertainer, as Julie now named Mr. Gilroy, bid them all
good-night and went up the trail. And the scouts were soon in bed, their
last waking thoughts being of Raven, Son of Raven, the All-in-all of
Creation.




CHAPTER SIX

LOST ON THE TRAIL


A few days after the girl scouts' visit to Grey Fox Camp, they were
agreeably surprised by having the boys visit them. Mr. Gilroy was with
them, and as each boy carried an ax and a woodman's knife, the girls
knew they came to work.

"We decided to cut a shorter trail over the crest, and as to-day is so
cool, we thought it would be a fine time for work," explained Alec, the
leader in the boys' camp.

"One day's as good as another! We're ready to help any time," replied
Julie, as leader of the Girl Scouts' Troop.

"Why didn't you let us know, then we might have blazed the trail up our
side of the mountain, and you boys would have worked from your side.
When we met on top, we might have celebrated with a feast," ventured
Mrs. Vernon.

So the girls ran for axes and knives, and all began work together, back
of Dandelion Camp. They cut and chopped, and blazed a fine trail up past
Silver Falls, where the doe had called to her mate the first night the
girls were at Camp, and so on to the top of the mountain. But it took
the greater part of that morning to go as far as they did.

"We'd better stop here, and go back to see how the trail seems,"
suggested Mr. Gilroy.

"Why not finish the job, now that we're on top?" asked Alec.

"Because you boys can easily blaze from here on to your camp, and I am
beginning to worry lest my dinner is burning," laughed Mr. Gilroy.

"_Your_ dinner! Where's the Indian cook?" asked Alec.

"He's cooking for fifteen! I have invited guests coming to dine at the
bungalow this evening," returned Mr. Gilroy, meaningly.

"Oh, hurrah! Isn't that fine? Now we won't have to wash any
supper-dishes!" exclaimed Ruth, who still disliked doing dishes.

The girls laughed, for they understood, but Alec said, "Why talk about a
supper so distant! I'd rather plan about something to eat this minute."

"So would we all. I guess we are nearly starved," said Ned.

"Why not stop work and cook a few steaks?" suggested Bob.

"You boys have done all the talking about something to eat, but the
girls said nothing. Maybe they are not hungry!" ventured Mr. Gilroy.

"Hungry! We're too _weak_ to speak," sighed Julie, rubbing the spot
under her belt.

"I can eat reindeer moss without its being cooked," said Amy.

"That settles it! Cook we must, but what?" declared Joan.

"Well, some of us will hunt up the mushrooms; some must gather bracken,
some, the lichen; and Gilly can hunt up the coffee beans, _alias_ roots
and acorns," said Alec.

"What will _you_ be doing, meantime?" retorted Mr. Gilroy.

"Oh, I'll just remove that package of flour from your pocket and use
this strip of bacon that I lifted from Dandelion larder; and when the
steaks come back, I'll have bread and fat ready over a fine fire."

"Bacon! When did you manage to steal that?" demanded the Captain,
amazed.

The boys laughed, for Alec's clever sleight-of-hand was an endless
source of fun for them.

"Don't all hunt together. Divide your strength and see that results come
back with you," advised Alec, rolling up his sleeves preparatory to
starting his fire.

"I can't fish like the other boys, so I'll go with the girls who are
going for the beefsteaks," said Dick.

"All right. And where will you go, Captain?" asked Alec.

"If Gilly is sent for coffee, I shall hunt for tea. I do not care for
his brand of coffee, but I _do_ know where to find the ingredients for
a nice fragrant cup of tea."

A laugh circled the group, and Mr. Gilroy said, "All right. Now see to
it that you don't ask for a drop of my coffee, hereafter."

So they separated, some of the scouts going with Mrs. Vernon; Bob and
Ned going for trout; Hester and Amy with Mr. Gilroy; and Julie, Joan and
Judith with Dick, for mushrooms.

After breaking a way through a dense jungle, the latter four scouts came
out to a small clearing, but they had not seen any mushrooms.

"What a fine baseball diamond this clearing would make!" said Julie, as
they looked around.

"And there are some chestnut stumps--on the far side of the clearing!"
exclaimed Dick, crossing to the spot.

But they found no mushrooms on the stumps, much to their chagrin.
"There'll be other trees about here, where we're sure to find what we
need," said Dick, eagerly.

So into the woods they plunged, winding about here and there, but not
finding what they sought. None of them thought to blaze a trail as they
wandered, consequently had no means of telling how far or in what
direction they had gone before Dick found a few small mushrooms.

"Only enough for a few of us. We need more than these," he remarked.

"There's sure to be more where these are. Let's keep on hunting," urged
Julie.

So they kept on winding through the underbrush, but with no good
results. Finally Dick found a plant that he believed to be a wild
potato.

"No, it is not. It hasn't the leaves or blossom of the Indian potato,"
declared Joan.

"That may be, but when it grows old it dries up, you know," argued Dick,
beginning to dig at the root.

The girls wandered about seeking for signs of more mushrooms, but could
find none. Then Dick stood up and stretched his back-muscles.

"My that was tough digging when you have no tool. And it wasn't a potato
after all."

"Well, we've been gone a long time now. Suppose we go back with what we
have," said Joan.

"Yes; even if we can't fill up on steaks to-day, let us eat more of the
greens," added Judith.

So they turned to go back to camp. They climbed over the boulders
similar to those over which they had already climbed, over similar
fallen timber, and finally came to a stream.

"I don't remember a brook when we came," remarked Julie.

"Neither do I," added Judith.

"All places look alike when you're hunting anything. We may have crossed
a bog or a brook and never have noticed it," said Dick.

"Oh, I would have noticed it! I wouldn't be such a poor scout as not to
know where I was going," returned Julie, defensively.

"Now, Dick, I'm sure there was no bog where we came through, but here's
one right ahead of us," called Joan, who was a few paces ahead.

"No, there was no bog!" affirmed Julie.

"Did you bring a compass?" now asked Dick.

"No, we never thought of being lost," murmured Julie.

"We're not lost, just strayed a bit," Dick assured them.

"'Lost, Strayed or Stolen'--it's all the same if we have to miss our
dinner," sighed Joan.

They managed to cross the boggy spot and then trailed to a place that
Dick claimed was the clearing. But it turned out to be a little fen made
by a tiny spring.

"What we should have done was to leave our marks as we came
through--broken twigs, or trampled grass, or some such signs," said
Julie.

"But we didn't, and now is no time to talk of it!" Dick said
impatiently, for he began to realize that they really were lost.

"We can begin right now, however, and then not keep circling around
without recognizing that we were there before!" snapped Julie.

So the girls began, then and there, to leave their signs as they
followed after Dick, who really knew not where he was leading.

"Had we better separate and go in different directions to hunt the
camp?" asked Dick finally.

"Mercy, no! Better be lost together than get lost each one alone!"
exclaimed Joan.

"Sort of 'United we stand,' etc.," chuckled Julie, in spite of her
concern over not finding the way.

They kept on forcing a way through the thick bush and resting now and
then when they found a little clearing; but finally Judith cried:
"You'll have to go without me! I'm so weak from hunger I can't walk
another step."

"Girls, suppose we stop and cook the steaks?" asked Dick.

"I say so, too," agreed Julie.

So they cleared a little space in the woods and with two rubbing-sticks
soon produced fire. While two of the girls were doing this, Dick washed
the mushrooms in the little spring they had seen, and then sliced them
with his knife.

"We haven't any salt or bacon, but they'll taste good to starved
wanderers," said Dick, holding one over the fire to cook.

Each girl spiked one on a sharpened stick and held it out to broil. When
the mushrooms were cooked they each ate until they felt better. Then
Dick made a suggestion.

"Making this fire gave me an idea. Why not make 'two smokes' for
signals. If Alec or any one else is looking for us, they can see them."

"Why didn't we think of that before! Fine idea, Dick," said Joan.

"What will 'two smokes' mean?" asked Judith.

"Means 'we are lost,' come find us," said Dick, busy with two heaps of
firewood.

"But you can't signal here under these trees, Dick! We've got to find an
open place where the smoke can rise up above the tree-tops, you know,"
advised Julie.

Dick realized he had been caught napping by a girl, and he didn't like
it very much but he could not show his annoyance, for Julie was right.
So he stood up and said: "I'll shout as loud as possible,--maybe they
will hear us." So he shouted until he was hoarse.

"In this dense forest, where the trees break every sound, the smoke
signal is as good as any other. Let us find a clearing," suggested
Julie.

So they sought again, and soon found an open spot where the sky was
visible without any obstructing tree-branches overhead.

"Why, this looks like the same clearing that I said would make a fine
baseball diamond," declared Julie.

"So it does! And here is a broken twig where we went out," said Joan.

    [Illustration: "We are lost, come find us" ... Page 98]

"Then we can't be many miles from home," laughed Julie, her spirits
rising again at the slightest encouragement.

They made two smokes, however, and waited to watch the thin spirals rise
above the trees, side by side, until they dispersed in the blue ether
far overhead. But no sound came in answer to the signals.

"Maybe no one remembered the smoke idea," ventured Judith.

"And they'd have to be in the open, or climb a tree, to see it,"
asserted Joan.

"Maybe they made signals, too, and are waiting for us to answer them.
Did you bring a rifle, Dick?" said Julie.

"No, none of us did. But I can climb one of these trees and see if the
others made any smokes."

"Choose that towering pine,--you ought to be able to see everything from
that high top," advised Julie.

So Dick climbed the tall pine, but after he had reached the top he saw
nothing that might lead him to find the other campers. He shouted and
whistled as shrilly as he could from the lofty perch, but no answering
sound came to his ears, so he slid down again.

"See anything at all, Dick?" asked Julie, the moment he came down.

"A great sea of waving green tops, one wave back of the other, without a
break," said he.

"Well, what now? Shall we keep on hunting for the way back from this
clearing, or just sit and let them find us?" asked Joan, despondently.

"You know they say a flock of ducks will always fly towards water. Now,
I saw some ducks flying in one direction when I sat up in that tree,"
remarked Dick.

"Then you _did_ see something other than waves of green! Why didn't you
say so!" snapped Julie, impatient with his poor scouting sense.

"I thought they might be flying down towards Little Moose Lake, where
Dandelion Camp is, and we want to find our party," said Dick, in
justification.

"Anything to get out of this tangle. We'd just as lief wind up at
Dandelion Camp as elsewhere," said Joan.

"All right then, follow me and we will go in the direction the birds
flew," said Dick, and he started down hill.

Down and down they tramped, chopping away smaller obstructions, until
they were stopped by a wide fen that belted the section. Advance was
impossible, for every time one tried to step upon the ooze the foot
would begin to sink in.

"Oh, how awful!" wailed Judith, ready to cry.

"How can we cross? If only we could find a fallen tree that happened to
fall right across," sighed Joan.

"If only we had a drink of cold water I'd be thankful," declared Julie,
mopping her warm face.

"That's the easiest part of the whole trouble," quickly said Dick.

"What do you mean? I wouldn't drink that slimy liquid for anything,"
said Julie, frowning at the water.

"Now, just wait a second and you'll see what I can do with that water!"
bragged Dick, glad to redeem his reputation as a scout.

With hands and a stick he quickly dug a hole to the depth of the marsh.
Then he squinted carefully at his well, then at the marsh, and back
again. The girls watched him curiously.

"Guess I can go a few inches deeper,--the well has to be about six
inches below the surface of the nearby pool, you know."

He dug deeper and soon the well began filling with muddy water. "There,
now I've got it!" said Dick.

"Do you expect us to drink _that_!" scorned Joan.

"No, but wait." Dick hurriedly baled out the well until it was almost
emptied. Then he allowed it to fill again.

He baled it out a second time, and permitted it to fill again. The third
time the water was almost clear, so he baled once more, and this time
the water filtered in as clear as crystal.

He stooped, drank from it, and said: "It's cold and pure!"

Then the girls drank, and found it most refreshing to their parched
tongues and throats.

"Well, I never knew that before! We've learned two things by being lost
with Dick as guide," said Julie frankly, and Dick was delighted to hear
such nice things about himself.

"Shall we try to circle this fen and get across, or go back again?" now
asked Dick.

"It's hard to tell just what is best to do," murmured Julie, puckering
her brow in thought.

Suddenly two shots echoed down the mountainside, and after an interval
of six seconds a third shot rang out.

"There! Alec's seen our smoke. His signal means 'Where are you?' What
shall we do?" cried Dick, excitedly.

"How can we answer them?" wondered the girls.

"We'll have to back-trail to our clearing. That's where the shots
sounded from," said Dick.

"Dear me, if only we had waited there, they would have found us,"
complained Judith.

"But we didn't, so the next best thing to do is to get back as soon as
we can, or they'll go away again," declared Julie.

They climbed, scrambled and tumbled up the rugged slope, keeping as far
as they could to the rough trail they had made in coming down. When they
thought they were near the clearing, they shouted with all their
lung-power, and the welcome sound of answering calls soon greeted their
ears.

"Oh, Dick, give that cat-call again so they will know we're on our way,"
asked Julie, anxiously.

So Dick gave his ear-splitting whistle by placing his fingers between
his lips and blowing through the crevices. In less than ten seconds
afterwards, two shots sounded in quick succession.

"That means they've heard us and are waiting," cried Dick. "Come this
way,--that echo is misleading."

So the girls followed their young guide, and soon they broke through the
fringe of great trees into the clearing where the rest of the party
stood. Alec gave them no time to explain. He was angry, and no mistaking
it!

"Dick, can you tell me of any concession made to you that allows you to
start two fires and then go away and leave them to work their will in
these forests? If we had not found the fires you left, what might have
resulted to this area of mountain land?"

The girls and Dick stood amazed, for they had forgotten all about the
fires started as smoke signals.

"When I broke through the underbrush into this clearing, the fires were
blazing away like fury. They had encroached upon all the brush and handy
leaves, and were eating a way to the timber-line. In half an hour more
those same _little_ fires would be raging over the crest and destroying
acres and acres of forest-trees, to say nothing of causing the work all
the farmers and forest-rangers would have in trying to control it. Just
because a brainless scout _forgot_ his duty!" The scorn in Alec's last
words was cutting.

Dick began to apologize, but Alec held up a hand. "No apology will
answer for such a thing." Then he turned to Ned and said: "Put Dick down
for penance at camp."

"We ought to be punished as well as Dick," said Julie. "We never
remembered the fires, either."

"That's up to your Captain,--I am merely doing my duty to _my_ Troop,"
returned Alec.

"Had anything to eat?" asked Anne, who always felt sorry for any one who
was hungry.

"We ate the mushrooms we found," meekly replied Joan.

"Then come back and eat what we left for you. We had fish and greens and
biscuit," said Hester.

While they were munching the cold food, Alec questioned them further.
"Why didn't you use what scout-sense you had? You know you could have
found the way you came through those woods by looking for broken cobwebs
across the bushes; by overturned stones with the damp under side
showing; or by broken twigs and crushed blades of grass; and last, but
hardest, you might have looked to see where leaves on trees and bushes
were turned awry from your brushing against them. They do not right
themselves immediately, you know."

"We never heard of that before," admitted Julie.

"But Dick has, even though he has forgotten it," said Alec. "He had to
learn it from the Manual--what he would do in case of being lost in a
forest."

"But even if you knew nothing about that, you all knew it would simplify
things for us if you were to blaze a way to guide us the way you went.
You could easily have broken twigs and left them hanging, or piled
little heaps of stones along the trail you took."

"Oh, for goodness sake! Let up on us now, and wait until _you_ are lost,
will you?" cried Julie, placing her palms over her ears.

"Yes, it's so easy to tell the other feller what to do!" was all the
retort Dick made.

"Well, children, after all I have my inning!" declared Mr. Gilroy,
chuckling.

"What's that?" demanded every one.

"I wanted you to come home and dine with me, but no! you must stop to
cook in the woods. Now you'll all be glad enough to hurry home and come
to my party. And the dinner won't be slighted, either, from so much
overeating up here!"




CHAPTER SEVEN

A LITTLE BUSINESS


At breakfast the day following the "Lost Scouts'" adventure, Mrs. Vernon
remarked: "Girls, yesterday's experience taught me an important thing,
and that is, we need a set of rules for camp, so that every member of
Dandelion Troop will have her proper share of work and duty to perform.

"We have been keeping house in a haphazard way, with no responsibility
attached to any one but Julie and me. Now, each day there must be some
sort of regulations and punishments, if duties are neglected. The fire
yesterday showed me that that system was good."

"Your idea is all right, Verny, but what will the rules cover, and why
have punishments?" asked Julie.

"Because every day will probably bring new problems to us, so that set
rules will not do, but each day must have added rules. If these rules
are not obeyed, the scout who is negligent ought to be made to pay for
her lack of obedience."

"Have you formulated any plan to begin with?" asked Joan.

"I thought that Julie, as Scout Leader, could consult with me about
that. Although I think we ought to select a new orderly for each day, to
see that the other scouts do what is required of them. If we begin with
Ruth, Betty next day, and so on through the new membership, one each
day, it brings us to the eighth day. Of course Julie, Joan and I will
not be orderlies. But the Leader and Corporal are over the Orderly, and
the Captain over all of you."

"What do you expect the Orderly to do, Verny?" asked Joan.

"She will read the rules for the day immediately after breakfast. Every
scout must take turns in being cook for camp one day. One must be
wood-gatherer, one must see that food supplies are on hand, some must do
the fishing, and so on through the entire housekeeping list. This trains
every one alike, and no partiality will be shown one who is a fine cook
or one who is an awful one!"

The girls laughed, and the Captain continued: "Then, we don't expect one
to do all the heavy work while another goes free, and by partitioning
the work and control each one does her bit. In case of any gross
negligence or breaking of rules, the Officer of the Day, the Corporal
and the Leader will decide the punishment. Should need arise, the whole
Troop may act as a jury to judge the matter."

After the Captain had finished speaking, the scouts sat down and
compiled a set of Camp Rules, and Ruth was asked to print them neatly
on cardboard, because Ruth was the artistic scout of the group.

This business disposed of, Julie said: "Now what shall we do to-day,
girls?"

"But you haven't chosen an Orderly for the Day!" called Judith.

"Oh, that's so! Well, it lies between Ruth and Amy, as they are the more
experienced scouts, to act the first day."

"Don't choose me. I've got my work cut out already, if you expect these
rules nicely printed," declared Ruth.

"All right, then; it's Amy. No partiality meant, girls," Julie reminded
them.

"More like 'malice aforethought,'" giggled Joan.

"Why? Isn't it an honor to be the Orderly?" demanded Julie.

"It may _seem_ like an honor, but when it is thoroughly investigated it
turns out to be just plain old hard work!"

"Sure, Julie! Don't you see, all the other scouts go scot free for the
day, while the Orderly has to see that everything is done properly and
then take the blame if nothing is right," laughed Judith.

"Well, Amy is able to carry the burden, and it is only for a day; then
another one has to do it," said the Captain.

When the weighty business of selecting rules and deciding on a
recreation for the day was over, Mrs. Vernon said, "Which did you decide
to do first, hike or swim?"

"Is Mr. Gilroy coming over to visit us to-day?" asked Ruth.

"He invited himself to supper to-night, but I doubt if we see him before
that time. Why?" answered the Captain.

"Because if he was coming, he would hike with us, and we'd rather wait
for him, and swim first. But it doesn't matter now."

"We'll go for the hike first, and when we get back a fine, cool swim
will feel good," suggested the Orderly for the day.

"Verny, do you know of any places one might choose for an objective on a
hike?" asked Joan.

"Yes, Mr. Gilroy gave me a county map that shows every good trail within
twenty miles of here. I'll get it and we'll look it over." So saying,
the Captain went to her tent for the paper.

They all sat about Mrs. Vernon as she studied the map and read aloud of
various trails that sounded interesting. At last she said: "Here's one
that seems inviting. It is named 'River Bend,' and the trail winds along
one of the streams that is an outlet of our lake. The description says
the blazes are old but distinct, and no one can miss the may. Shall we
try that trail?"

"Where does it end?" questioned Hester.

"How long is it to anywhere?" asked Anne.

"It's seven miles, and forks when one reaches the hut of an Indian
canoe-builder. One fork runs to River Bend village, and the other to a
ravine that is said to be most picturesque."

"We'll take that trail and decide which place we prefer to see, the
village or the ravine, after we have hiked a while," said the Orderly.

"Why not take a little flour and fat and catch some fish at noon, and
sup while on the trail?" asked Julie.

"Why not carry our dinner stuff and have a _regular_ meal while we are
about it," said Anne, who could not forego a dinner.

The other scouts laughed, and Mrs. Vernon replied, "All right, it sounds
inviting."

So each scout carried a tin cup and platter, while the Orderly saw to it
that each one carried part of the dinner material. It fell to the
Captain's lot to carry the frying-pan, and to Anne to carry the
two-quart pail; the others had the flour, bacon, potatoes, etc.

River Bend trail led down to the end of the lake, where the stream
started. It wound in and out, as it followed the uneven edges of Little
Moose Lake, running over mossy knolls, through rivulets, past
waterfalls, and around impassable obstructions. Thus the detouring added
greatly to the distance the map had vouched for.

The scouts had paper and pencils in case they wished to sketch anything
interesting, but most of the paper was used in writing notes along the
way, to be entered later in their records. They had gone about two miles
when Julie stopped short and held up a warning hand.

"Verny, listen! I heard a baby crying pitifully over in those high
bushes."

"Mercy me! Do you suppose there can be any gypsies here?" cried Amy, the
timid.

"Gypsies--nothing! But how could a baby get in that jungle?" retorted
Joan.

Then they distinctly heard the plaintive wail, as of a very young child
in fear and distress. Even Mrs. Vernon turned pale at the picture that
presented itself to her thought.

"Girls, we've got to investigate this. It doesn't seem plausible that
any one would bring a kidnapped child to this wilderness to lose it, but
one can never tell!" declared Julie.

"It's a baby, that we know, so it's up to us to save it," added Ruth.

"The poor little dear!" wept Betty, the tender-hearted.

So the scouts began cutting a way through the almost impenetrable growth
that divided the trail from the place whence came the cries. But as they
went deeper in the jungle and got nearer the spot they were aiming for,
the cries ceased.

"Dear, dear! I hope the little thing isn't past aid?" murmured the
Captain, anxiously.

That urged the scouts to greater endeavor, and finally Julie broke into
a tiny clearing of about three feet across, and saw a little grey
rabbit, which had been caught in an old mesh-wire trap set by some one
long before and forgotten.

"Oh, you poor little creature!" cried Julie, falling upon her knees to
rescue the soft little thing.

"Is it alive, Jule?" asked a chorus of anxious voices.

"Yes, but it is awfully afraid of me. I can't do anything for it."

"Maybe it will bite you--do be careful, Jule!" called Amy, deliciously
thrilled at this fearful risk her friend was taking.

"Bite!" scorned Julie. "It's starved, and too weak to even nibble."

"Wait, Julie! Let me throw my hat over it so it won't see what we are
doing. Then it won't feel so frightened. Remember the 'Boulder' we all
saw, and when it moved we had a panic? Well, our sense of sight was all
that caused that fear. It is the same now--what the rabbit doesn't see
it won't fear," explained Mrs. Vernon.

While it was hidden under the broad-brimmed scout hat, the rabbit was
not aware of the willing rescuers, and soon Julie had the snare open,
and Mrs. Vernon held the little creature in her hat.

"Shall we let it go now?" asked some of the girls.

"It may have an injured leg where the trap caught it. I think we will
carry it home and feed it well, and then if it is all right, it can run
away. It is sure to be caught by some larger animal if it is unable to
jump or run," said the Captain.

"This will make a dandy story to write down in our record book, Verny,
won't it?" asked Ruth, eagerly.

"Yes, but it will also show how inexperienced we are in wildwood
sounds,--to mistake the rabbit's cry for a child's wail."

"But it _did_ sound exactly like a baby, there's no denying that!"
exclaimed Julie, frowning as she realized how they all were caught
napping.

"This reminds me of a story Alec told us yesterday when we were waiting
at the campfire for you lost scouts," said Hester. "He and his Troop
went on a three days' hike in the country last year, and at night they
found an old abandoned barn where they decided to sleep. The floor was
in good condition, with a bit of hay piled up in one corner. But the
loft overhead was in such bad condition that in many places the flooring
was broken down completely. As there was no ladder or stairway to reach
it, the boys concluded there was no use in examining it--no one would be
up there!

"So they stretched out on the hay and were soon sound asleep. But some
time after that--no one knew how long they had been asleep--Ned nudged
Alec and whispered: 'Some one's in the loft!'

"Alec sat up and listened. Sure enough, he could hear a man snoring as
distinctly as he could hear Dick breathe.

"So he roused the other scouts, and they very quietly crept over to the
side where they could get a grip on the joists to help themselves up.
Each scout had armed himself in some way. One had an old pitchfork with
but one prong. Another had a rake handle, one found the curved handle of
a feed-grinder, and so on.

"When they got to the shaky, decayed floor above, the snoring had
stopped, so they knew the tramp was aware of their approach. They had to
be awfully careful, too, so as not to fall through any of the broken
places in the floor. But they each had their lanterns, and used them
before they took a step. Alec went first, and threw the light back and
forth to avoid a sudden surprise from the tramp.

"'There's something moving over on that pile of old burlap sacks!'
whispered Alec, the instant he saw a creeping movement there.

"Several of the boys then jumped and began beating up the sacks
violently. But as suddenly, a pair of wings flapped up in their faces
with a whirring sound, and a barn-owl began to screech madly as she
rose and flew through a hole in the roof."

Hester laughed as she reached this part of the story, and all the scouts
joined in. Julie, who had not heard it before, said:

"Thank goodness, we girls are not the only ones to be taken in, then!"

"Alec said there are lots of wild creatures that make sounds exactly
like human beings. And that owl snored just like a man."

By this time they had regained the trail, and Mrs. Vernon tenderly
adjusted the trembling rabbit. The hat so covered it that it could curl
inside and not see a thing to cause it any fear, and thus it was carried
along, to be cared for later on and then regain its freedom.

The scouts found many interesting subjects for discussion along the
trail, until they reached a wide shallow stream that came down the steep
mountainside and emptied into the river.

"It's not on the map, and it sure cuts off further progress," said the
Captain.

"It's shallow--we can wade it," suggested Julie.

"Let us go upstream and find a narrow ford, or some rocks that we can
cross on," added Mrs. Vernon.

They went up on the near side of the stream, but the banks became so
rocky and impassable that they found it was useless to try to climb
them. The scenery was wild and wonderful, so several good pictures were
taken of the tumbling waters and rocks, and then they all retraced their
steps.

"Now, it's wade or go back," declared Joan.

"Stuff your stockings down in your boots and sling them about your necks
by the strings," advised Julie.

This was done, and one after another the scouts waded through the
stream, shouting, screaming if one slipped on a stone, laughing when one
stepped in a hole and got wet to the waist, but having plenty of fun.

"How did bunny stand the voyage?" called Julie, the moment the Captain
stepped up on the bank.

"Bunny is curled up fast asleep, I guess," said she.

"I wish it was noon. Did any one hear the twelve o'clock whistle blow?"
laughed Joan.

"Why--are you hungry?" questioned Anne.

"Aren't you?" retorted the Orderly.

"Sure! I always am," laughed Anne, frankly.

"Then why not say it is dinner-time, Verny?" asked Ruth.

"You must be hungry, too!" declared Judith.

"I bet we all are, if Verny will take the count," asserted Hester.

"Well, we may as well stop here beside this stream and eat, as to go on
and fare worse," admitted the Captain.

"Some one's got to fish," said Judith.

"Why not all fish and the sooner catch what is needed?" advised Mrs.
Vernon. So this suggestion was followed out.

Four goodly sized fish rewarded the combined efforts of the fishermen
that time, and then two scouts were detailed to clean them, while two
went to build a fire. Others were tolled off to attend to other work,
and in half an hour a savory meal was ready.

When all signs of cooking and eating were cleaned away, Mrs. Vernon took
the bunny again and said they had best go on.

"Outdoor cooking and eating always makes me feel fine. I can walk a
hundred miles now, and feel it no more than if it were a trifle," said
Julie, taking a deep breath.

"All the same, we haven't gone five miles yet, according to Verny's map,
and there is still that walk home, so don't brag too much, Julie,"
advised Betty, seriously.

"We haven't voted yet whether we want to go on to the village or to the
ravine," now said Ruth.

"I'd like to visit the old Indian canoe-maker, and have a chat with
him," said Joan.

"His time is money, so he will charge us for chatting," returned Julie,
grinning.

"I think Joan's idea of visiting the Indian a good one, girls; why not
go there instead of to either of the other places?"

The Captain's suggestion was agreed upon, and the scouts turned in at
the willow-arched walk that led to the Indian's hut. A wide brook ran
under the willows, and here they saw several canoes waiting to be used.
The pathway that ran alongside the brook was littered with rubbish of
all kinds,--the accumulation of years of slovenly housekeeping and lazy
carpenter work out of doors.

But it was evident that the Indian was neither slovenly nor lazy when it
pertained to making canoes. Every canoe there was a splendid example of
workmanship. When the scouts reached the door, the owner came out to see
them.

"Morn'," said he, bowing seriously to his visitors.

"Are you Mike, the Indian?" asked Mrs. Vernon, after acknowledging the
salutation.

"Me Mike--wan'da canoe?"

"No, we came to visit you. We are friends of Mr. Gilroy's," explained
the Captain.

"Huh! Mees'er Gilloy use Mike's canoes."

"So he told us. He says they are the finest anywhere," said Julie,
ingratiatingly.

"Bedder buy one," came from the Indian.

"Verny, we might _rent_ another one--we only have two in the lake, you
know, and we all prefer canoes to boats," whispered Joan.

"We can't afford any added expense," replied Mrs. Vernon.

But Mike understood the meaning of that whisper, so he wisely said:
"Come see fine canoes."

He led the way to his shop on the banks of the little stream and
displayed the various methods of his trade. The girls found it all very
instructive and interesting. Then he said:

"Mike take canoe to lake fer leddy--no charge."

"What do you mean by that?" wondered Julie.

"Mike give fine canoe--one week try; leddy not like, Mike come take him
home. No pay."

"But we don't want any more canoes. We have two now," asserted Mrs.
Vernon.

Mike shrugged his shoulders silently.

"How much you rent canoe for?" asked Julie, believing the Indian could
comprehend better if she used bad English.

"Mike no rent his canoe--sell him cheap."

"We can't afford to buy one, but we might rent it if you make a low
price," bargained Julie.

Mike shook his head decidedly. "No rent--onny buy."

"Come, girls! We must start on, now that we've had our visit," said the
Captain, turning to go.

The scouts reluctantly turned also, but Mike saw their faces, and also
knew that the lady was boss. So he seemed to reconsider.

"Mike got good fren' by Mees'er Gilloy. Mebbe fren's of him be fren's
of Mike. How much you give for rent canoe?"

Every one turned suddenly at that hope held forth.

"What do you ask?" countered Mrs. Vernon.

"Got money now to pay?" asked Mike, cutely.

Julie exclaimed, "Certainly!" But the Captain saw through the shrewd
bargainer, and said: "We'll have Mr. Gilroy do this business for us."

Now Mike had no idea of losing these customers, nor of having to deal
with a good business man like Mr. Gilroy, so he said guilelessly: "Solly
dese gals no paddle home in dis canoe."

Several of the scouts instantly wished to do so, but the Captain said:
"Corporal, see that your Troop does not fall for this enticing snare."

The scouts laughed when they comprehended Mike's intentions, and Mrs.
Vernon courageously walked away. But Mike followed.

"Canoe rent for four dollah week."

"What! that's sixteen a month! I guess not!" cried Julie.

"Fren's of Mees'er Gilloy get him fer tree dollah week."

"No sir-ee!" retorted Julie. "Mike, I'll pay you two dollah week--or six
dollah mont--or feefteen dollah season. What you take?"

All the scouts laughed, but Mike frowned. "Me tak feefteen dollah now to
Augus' furst," said he.

Every one hushed to get every word of this bargaining.

"We want him in Augus', too. Him worth feefteen dollah, no more, till
September ten," declared Julie, slapping her palms together to emphasize
her words.

Mike sighed audibly. "All light. But Mike no carry him an' lose day.
Gals mus' tak now an' pay down."

Then every one turned to every one else, and word ran round: "Who's got
any money?"

"I've got three dollars--that's all," said Mrs. Vernon.

"Mike, we got tree dollahs only. Come to camp and get rest," said Julie.

"You tak him along?" asked Mike, anxiously.

"Are you 'fraid to trust us?" countered Julie.

"Oh, no! Mike no wan' trouble carry him so far, da's all."

So the three dollars was paid down, balance to be paid when Mike called
for it; canoe to be taken along with no added work expected of Mike.

Mike launched the canoe in the stream that passed his shop, and several
of the girls squatted in the bottom. But it proved overweighted for such
a shallow stream, and two had to get out again. Julie and Joan then
paddled it safely to the deeper river, where Amy and Judith, being
lightest of the scouts, got in and sat in the bottom.

Mrs. Vernon and the rest of the Troop stood watching eagerly while the
two girls paddled silently and swiftly up the river to the place where
the tumbling stream joined River Bend. Here they halted to allow their
other friends to catch up with them.

Julie and Joan were complimented upon their prowess, and when Ruth and
Betty exchanged places with Amy and Judith, the canoe went on its way up
the river, while the other scouts continued hiking back towards camp.

"It wouldn't take us long to reach home if we were all in canoes," said
Anne.

"It would if _you_ were in one--you are so heavy!" laughed Hester.

A titter sounded from the girls, but Mrs. Vernon held up a hand for
silence. "Was that thunder I heard from over the mountain?"

"No, that was only Julie's paddle echoing down the stream," giggled
Judith. But a louder rumble told the Captain she was right in her
surmise.

"Dear me! I hope we won't be caught in another thunder-storm," said she,
holding the bunny closer to her side.

But in answer to her fear, a sudden flash and a nearer peal of thunder
warned them all to seek shelter if possible.

"If it rains we're bound to be soaked!" sighed Anne.

"You big silly! Did any of us think water was dry?" asked Hester,
scornfully.

"I do wish those girls hadn't left us in the canoe! If it rains they may
upset," worried the Captain.

"They didn't leave _us_ in the canoe, Captain. And we are just as likely
to meet with mishap as they," laughed Judith, to cheer every one up.

"Well, it's going to break mighty quick! See that inky cloud scudding
across there?" exclaimed Amy, pointing at the sky.

"Verny, why not make a quick shelter to crawl under?" suggested Anne.

"Think you can do it?" answered the Captain.

"Hester's got the rubber cover that Mike gave us for the canoe when it
is not in use, and we might stretch that between four trees," added
Anne.

"That's so. Let's try it!" agreed Hester, eagerly.

Quickly, then, the scouts chopped down the scrub bush where four young
trees were found for the corners, and then, while Anne and Hester
secured the four corners of the cover, the other girls ditched around
the spot so the rain would run off and not soak their camping place.

Anne and Hester completed their work before the others, and then hastily
bunched a mass of chopped-down bushes all around the temporary tent to
break the driving rain when it came. The spot thus enclosed was not
large, but by huddling together they managed to keep dry.

"How nice it is to sit in a dry place and watch everything else
gradually soak with the rain," ventured Amy, comfortably.

"No one would have dreamed that a shower would come up to-day, the
weather was so perfect when we left camp," said Judith.

"Do any of you girls understand weather-lore?" asked Mrs. Vernon.

No one did, so the Captain continued: "If you study wind and cloud,
wildwood creatures and other animals, you will find much to interest you
in the weather.

"When rain is coming you will see the sheep turn their tails to
windward, but if the day is to be fine the sheep will graze with faces
to the wind.

"Cows always gather and huddle together at a sheltered end of the
pasture lot when a storm is approaching. Cattle are restless and uneasy
before a storm breaks. And cows will fling up their heels, or sheep will
gambol as if to make the most of the sunshine just before a prolonged
spell of bad weather. Pigs, too, will grunt loudly and cavort about
uneasily in their pens, carrying bits of straw from their bedding in
their mouths, before a heavy rainstorm.

"With wild creatures you will find partridges sitting in the fields when
thunder is in the air. But the moment the storm blows over, the birds
are alive with energy again. Rabbits and other night-feeders can be
found out hunting on a sunny day, but that means there will be a wet
night.

"Most of our birds in field and forest know when a storm is brewing, and
they can be seen seeking for extra food to carry home, or, perhaps,
devouring it quickly, storing it up against the time everything is
soaked with the rain.

"Bees seldom fly far from the hive when rain is threatening; flies are
annoying and sting sharply before rain, and many times they cling
tenaciously to wall or furniture,--that is to keep flat to a surface, so
their bodies will not become damp.

"A large ring can be found to encircle the moon the night preceding a
rainstorm. Should the storm be two or three days off, the ring is wider
and you will find fainter shadows inside the main circle,--one for each
day.

"Mountain moss is found to be soft and limp, and smoke generally beats
downward when the East Wind presages rain. Callouses on the feet will
ache painfully; spiders will be seen strengthening their webs against
moisture-weight; morning-glories will close up tightly; mushrooms are
found to be numerous; and there are a dozen other weather-signs that I
forget now."

The scouts had listened with interest, for this was new to them,
although Hester added: "I've heard the saying, 'Mackerel sky, twelve
hours dry.'"

"Yes, and another one goes, 'Rain before seven, fine before eleven,'"
said Judith.

"You will find in summer that heavy dews in the night mean fine weather
the following day," added Mrs. Vernon. "Also any thunder-storm that
comes with the wind soon passes away, but let it come against the wind,
and it is apt to last."

"This one came with the wind and is blowing away already. See!"
exclaimed Amy, eagerly.

"Yes, girls, now we can do as the Arabs--fold our tent and steal away,"
said Mrs. Vernon, rising carefully so as not to jar the bunny which had
remained very quiet all this time.

"I wonder what the girls in the canoe did while the rain was falling,"
said Judith.

"Leave it to Julie to find a way. I'll say she landed them all on the
bank and then turned the canoe upside down over their heads," laughed
Hester.

When the canoeists arrived at camp, sometime after the hikers got there,
they exchanged experiences. Hester's surmise turned out to be exactly
right, and the girls in the canoe were as dry as those who sat under the
rubber cover.




CHAPTER EIGHT

JAKE'S INTERVIEW WITH A SKUNK


"Gilly, do you know of any vegetable dye we can find in the woods to dye
some burlap for decorations?" asked Julie one day.

"Yes, you can take the berries and leaves of red or staghorn sumac and
boil them together to make a black dye, or ink. If you need ink in a
hurry, you can take the _Genus Coprinus_, commonly known as the ink
mushroom, and pluck it at the end of its first day. The spores are
black, and the gills turn into a black fluid at the last. This produces
a splendid writing ink, or will dye grass, quills, and other wildwood
stuffs."

"Speaking of quills, Gilly--why can't we have chickens as the Grey Fox
boys have?" asked Joan.

"What would you do if they got the gapes, and no one would feed them
chopped onions?" laughed Mr. Gilroy.

"I'm not looking for trouble, but for pets to have about camp," retorted
Joan.

"I'd hardly call a chicken a pet!" laughed Julie.

"Even so, Julie, it would cluck and _appear_ to be friendly, even it
wasn't."

"What you scouts need is a good frisky dog for a pet. You can have
chickens, if you like, but they are a nuisance. They stray away to lay
their eggs, and if they were kept cooped you'd have to spend valuable
time making a suitable inclosure. But a dog will go hiking with you,
guard you at night from elephants and other prowling animals of the
jungle, and be a fine old pal to boot," said Mr. Gilroy.

"Oh, why didn't we think to bring Jippy," exclaimed Amy. Jip was a
little poodle of about fifteen years and had had the rickets for the
past five years, so he had to be carried about.

The moment the scouts saw that Amy was in earnest they fairly roared,
and Judith finally said: "Oh, Amy's catching the _ing√©nue_ habit from
Betty! What shall we do with two of them on hand?"

"Had we but known of this dire need of a dog, we would have brought
Towser--had he lived. He was only twenty-two this March, and had full
use of his bark even though he had no teeth or eyesight. But, alas!
alas! Towser is no more!" sighed Julie, rolling her eyes.

As Towser had been one of the "old settlers" in Elmertown, he was known
to every man, woman and child there. Many a time, because he was
stone-deaf and had not heard the blast from the horn, some one would
have to rush out to rescue him from a passing automobile. So Julie's
lament caused a new burst of merriment.

"Stop all fooling now, scouts, and listen to me," said Mr. Gilroy. "I
mean a regular dog--an Irish terrier, or a bulldog, to chum with and be
of some good to you. How'd you like it?"

"There ain't no sech critter in camp," retorted Julie.

"But I know where to get one! His name is Jake, and he is very fond of
the ladies, I'm told."

"His name sounds dreadfully rakish, Gilly," teased Joan.

"If Jacob is as faithful as his name would imply, we'd like to meet
him," added Mrs. Vernon, smiling.

"You shall. He lives at the farm where my overseer is, and the next time
Mr. Benson is due here, I'll see that Jake accompanies him. If both
sides are mutually attracted, the dog shall stay to give you scouts
something to do," declared Mr. Gilroy.

"What kind of a dog is he, Gilly?" asked Betty, eagerly.

"He is a prize Airedale. But he is so clever that he tries to run
everything on the farm, consequently Mr. Benson always has to separate
Jake from the other dogs in the neighborhood."

For the next two days the scouts were kept busy constructing a fine
kennel for Jake to live in when he joined their camp. Everything
imaginable was done to add to the comfort and luxury of this "dog's
life"; and the third day they started for the bungalow to be introduced
to Jake, who was expected to arrive that morning.

It was a warm, drowsy day, and the wildwood creatures seemed to be
keeping quiet. Even the bees hummed less noisily over the flowers they
were robbing of nectar. The girls strolled slowly along the pathway,
stopping now and then to watch a bird or examine a flower. They were
just passing the bend where the tumbling brook could be plainly seen
from the trail when, suddenly, Julie held up a warning hand for quiet.

Every one stopped short and waited. She pointed silently across the
bushes in the direction of a long fallen tree that lay on the bank of
the stream. The scouts looked, but saw nothing to cause this interest.
Then she whispered warily, "I saw a big creature creeping along that
log!"

"Really!"

"What did it look like? Which way did it go?" were questions hoarsely
whispered.

"It crawled on that log and suddenly disappeared. Maybe it jumped into
the water when it saw us. I am thinking it was a beaver," returned
Julie.

"Oh, how wonderful! If we could only see it at work," cried some of the
scouts.

"How big was it, Julie?" now asked Mrs. Vernon.

"It went so fast that I couldn't see well, but I should say it was about
as big as a very large cat,--maybe larger if we were closer," said
Julie.

"Dear me, if we didn't have to go for Jake we might sit and wait for it
to appear again. If it is a beaver, I'd love to watch it build a dam,"
sighed Ruth.

"I hope Jake won't want to chase it, on our way back," Betty worried, as
the thought struck her.

"We'll hold Jake on a leash. And if he doesn't make a fuss we might
creep over and watch for the animal's appearance again," added Julie.

"Then the sooner we go and get Jake, the sooner we'll be back here," was
the sensible remark of Joan.

The scouts now hurried along the trail and soon reached the bungalow,
where a splendid Airedale was sleeping in the sunshine. He was stretched
out full length right in the way where one would have to pass to go up
the steps to the verandah.

"Oh, are you Jake?" called Julie quickly, when she saw the dog.

"Isn't he a beaut?" cried Joan, admiring the shapely form as it jumped
up to growl at the visitors.

"Why, Jake, don't begin our relations with a growl! Don't you know we
have to keep the peace all summer?" laughed Julie, snapping her fingers
to the dog.

Mr. Gilroy heard voices and came out on the verandah. The moment he
greeted the scouts familiarly, Jake wagged his stump of a tail and ran
up to show his friendship for his master's friends.

The girls fussed over the dog immediately, and Mr. Gilroy smiled. "Well,
what do you think of him, scouts? Is he homely enough to win your pity?
You know it is said, 'Pity is akin to love.'"

"He's a regular peach, Gilly!" exclaimed Joan.

"Just what we need at camp," added Judith.

And in the next ten minutes the dog had won high favor with his future
companions. Then the scouts told about the animal they believed to be a
beaver, so they wanted to hurry back and watch.

"But hold to the leash if you go near the log. Jake is a born hunter,"
advised Mr. Benson.

"Oh, he is very obedient if you speak sternly to him," added Mr. Gilroy.
"If he tugs or wants to run, just command in severe tones, 'To heel,
Jake,' and he will obey like a lamb."

Jake wagged his tail as he watched Mr. Gilroy, and when the order was
given, 'To heel, Jake,' he crept behind his master.

"Oh, the darling! Doesn't he mind splendidly!" cried several of the
scouts.

"I'll come along pretty soon. Wait for me near the log where you saw the
beaver. I'll finish up with Benson and then join you there," said Mr.
Gilroy, as the scouts started down the trail again, leading Jake by the
leash.

Every one was delighted with the meek and obedient dog, and the fussing
was accepted by him as his due, but he paid no attention to the numerous
pats and endearing names given him as they walked along. Then they
reached the open space where the log bounded the edge of the running
water. It was about a hundred yards from the trail and distinctly
visible because the brook was lower than the footpath where the scouts
stood.

"There it is! I saw it!" exclaimed Joan, excitedly.

At the same moment Jake also saw something doubtful moving swiftly out
of sight back of the log. The girls ran over to the bushes to see the
better, and Julie's hold on the leash relaxed unconsciously. In that
same second, Jake took mean advantage of her inattention to him and
darted away.

"Oh, oh! Come back here, Jake!" yelled Julie instantly.

But the dog stood upon a rock, his ears erect, his nose sniffing as he
pointed it in the direction of the log. His tail trembled spasmodically
and the hair along his spine stood up stiffly.

"I say, to heel, Jake. Come back, to heel!" shouted every scout in the
group. But Jake was deaf to their calls.

Then the Captain called to him, but he bounded from the rock and managed
to force his way through the bushes, the leash catching here and there
on stumps, on sharp rocks, or on bushes.

"What shall we do? Now he'll kill the little beaver!" wailed Betty,
wringing her hands.

"Some one run back and get Gilly! _He'll_ make him mind," ordered Julie.

"Who's Orderly for the Day? I want to wait and watch what he does," said
Joan.

"Oh, pshaw! I'm Orderly, and I s'pose I've got to go," declared Judith,
impatiently.

"I'll go for you, Judy, 'cause I can't bear to wait here and see Jake
kill anything," said Betty, deeply distressed.

"All right, Judy,--let Betty go instead, if she likes," agreed the
Corporal. So Betty ran swiftly away while the other scouts resumed their
coaxings to draw Jake away from the log.

Julie now started to break away through the bush to get the dog, and
several of the girls followed closely at her heels. When they reached
the place where they had seen something move, they also saw tracks in
the soft soil.

"It really is a wild animal," said Julie, excited at sight of the
footprints.

"But what? Do you know?" asked Judith.

"No, but it must be a beaver--or a fox. I don't know which," confessed
Julie.

But they couldn't get at Jake. He was racing excitedly up and down on
the log, his nose close to the strangely odorous scent, and all the
commands and persuasions from the scouts failed to make the least
impression on him. His nervous short yelps showed how keen he was to
have a face-to-face bout with the animal.

Julie tried to step on the leash, but he dragged her foot so that she
suddenly sat down violently on the ground. Then he nosed under the grass
that hung over the brook, and finally swam over to the other side. There
he stood and watched nervously, but the girls could not get him back
again.

"Talk about his minding! Why, he's the cussedest dog I ever saw!"
complained Julie, as she got up and shook her clothes free of the
briars.

"There's no use standing in this baking sun to look at Jake standing on
the other bank!" exclaimed Joan, angrily eying the disobedient dog.

"We'll go back to the shady trail and watch for Gilly," said Julie,
starting back to join the Captain. But they kept calling to Jake as they
retraced their steps.

When they got back to the slight elevation where Mrs. Vernon and Amy had
waited, anxiously watching results, they saw Jake make a leap and swim
quickly back across the brook to the log.

"He must have seen or heard something that time," whispered Hester.

"Yes, 'cause he's stretched out on that log nervously wagging his tail
with his eyes glued on something," admitted Amy.

Then they caught their breath. The scouts saw a movement in the green
leaves at the end of the log and then--Jake was creeping stealthily
across that log, as if he also saw what he wanted to pounce upon.

"Oh, oh! Jake's got it! He's jumped upon it!" screamed Julie,
frantically.

"Why, it's a great big tomcat! They're fighting!" cried Hester, too
excited to stand still, but jumping up and down.

"A cat! Gilly hasn't a cat that color!" declared Joan.

"Girls!" fairly hissed Julie. "I bet it's a wildcat--and it will kill
Jake as sure as anything!"

"No, no! Oh, girls, I just saw it, too! It's a skunk! Run, run--for your
lives!" cried Mrs. Vernon, turning to run up the trail towards the
bungalow.

But several of the scouts would not desert the dog. He had carried the
skunk off its feet with his unexpected leap upon it, and the two rolled
and fought madly for supremacy. The leash, instead of tripping Jake, got
tangled in the skunk's legs, and both animals rolled back and forth.

The enraged beast fired the deadly fluid to blind her antagonist, but it
drenched the fallen tree only. Then Jake caught a grip on her throat and
shook her head; still she was game and kept on struggling.

Again they rolled over together, the skunk trying to get to the brink of
the water, where she would manage to roll them both in. But Jake
understood that motive, too, and braced his feet against the stones in
their way.

A second volley of the ill-smelling spray from the skunk struck at
random, and then Jake gave her neck another sudden shake. This time it
was effective, and the head suddenly hung limp. Jake had broken her
neck, and was the victor!

He now took great pains to drag the trophy through the brush to present
to his friends in the roadway. The leash caught several times and almost
snapped his own neck, and the skunk was heavy, but he managed to drag it
along.

When Julie saw his intent she screamed and warned the girls to flee! And
in running up the trail they met Mr. Gilroy, who had been summoned by
half-crazed Betty's crying, "Jake and the beaver are killing each
other!"

Mr. Gilroy did not stop to hear what Julie tried to gasp, but he ran
down and saw Jake bringing the skunk out into the pathway.

"To heel! to heel, Jake!" shouted Mr. Gilroy, holding his nose when the
dog tried to jump upon him in the ecstasy of having achieved such a
great deed.

"What shall we do with him? He can't sleep at Dandelion camp to-night,"
wailed the girls, as they, too, held their noses.

"I'll have to take him back to the barn and have Hiram turn the hose on
him for twenty-four hours."

"Isn't there a reward for skunks in the country?" now asked the Captain.

"Not only a reward, but the pelts are valuable since they became so
fashionable," remarked Mr. Gilroy, complacently.

"Well, Jake's earned his keep to-day, then," declared Judith.

"But it will cost more than the skunk brings to pay for the nine hundred
and ninety-nine bottles of _fleur-de-lis_ toilet water Gilly will have
to use to change Jake's scent!" laughed Julie.




CHAPTER NINE

LESSONS IN TRACKING


"Well, scouts! That shows us how little we know about wild animal's
tracks," remarked Mrs. Vernon, after Jake had been made to go back to
the bungalow, and the Troop went on to camp.

"I could have sworn that skunk's footprints were a coon's or a
fox's,--or something big!" exclaimed Julie, trying to justify her
mistake.

"To me, the tracks in the soil looked like a lynx's, or something,"
added Joan, hoping to cover the ignominy of having unearthed a skunk
without knowing the animal.

"Isn't there some sort of book that will teach us how to recognize
tracks, girls?" asked Hester.

"Is there, Verny? Maybe we can get one at the bungalow," added Julie.

"I don't know of any at this moment, but Mr. Gilroy surely will know,"
replied the Captain.

So they all went to the bungalow the next morning to inquire after
Jake's scent, and also to borrow any books on the subject they had
discussed.

"Yes, I have several books, and let me tell you they are precious, too.
There are but few on this subject, and the one I consider the best was
compiled by Ernest Seton-Thompson under great difficulties. He had to
gather all information from plaster casts made in the tracks themselves,
or from sketches, or from camera pictures taken on the spot.

"As every different animal leaves a different track, there are many
illustrations necessary in such a work, and that makes the book most
desirable and also very expensive. But it is great fun to study the
pictures and then try to recognize the tracks in the woods."

"We haven't found any about camp," said Judith, regretfully.

"There must be all sorts of tracks there, but you don't know how to find
them. Now, if you want to study this book and then practice early some
morning, I'll come down and help find the tracks," Mr. Gilroy said.

"Oh, great! Will you come to-morrow morning?" asked the girls.

"Hadn't we better study the book first, scouts, and let Gilly know when
we are ready to go tracking?" suggested the Captain.

So for a time every one was busy reading the book and trying to discover
a track in the woods near camp. But Julie laughed as she said, "It isn't
likely that a wild animal will prowl close to our camp at night. We'll
have to hunt one some distance away."

Mr. Gilroy overheard the remark as he came down the trail. "Sometimes
the animals will come quite close to camp just to find out what it is
that is intruding on their forest domain."

"Well, then, I wish they'd hurry and come here!" declared Judith.

"When you are ready to hunt tracks, I'll arrange some baits around your
camp grounds; and the next morning I'll vow you'll see that you've had
callers while you slept. So quiet are they that you won't hear them,
either," said Mr. Gilroy.

"We are ready to hunt now, Gilly. We know everything in the book and are
crazy to test it," said Joan, eagerly.

"Then I'll tell you what we might do. I was going over to Grey Fox Camp,
but if you girls will deliver a message for me, I will go home and
attend to the bait I spoke of. Hiram and I will do the rest."

"All right--what do you want us to say to the boys?" agreed the scouts.

"Now, listen! Tell them that I want them to start out at dawn in the
morning and hunt up all the tracks they can trace about their camp. Then
to-morrow afternoon they are to come over here with their reports and
have a match with you girls. The side showing the best results and most
interesting experience shall have a prize. How does it strike you?" Mr.
Gilroy glanced at the pleased faces as he concluded.

"Fine! Do they know much about tracks?" returned Julie.

"Oh, yes, but then you must understand that they have been scouting for
more than four years. Tell them that this is your first summer in a
genuine forest camp, and they need not expect you to accomplish wonders.
Then you girls must turn in and do your best!" laughed Mr. Gilroy.

The scouts were most enthusiastic, and gaily agreed to follow Mr.
Gilroy's suggestions. When they were ready to hike over the crest, the
Captain said, "We may as well invite the boys to supper to-morrow and
make a party of it."

"That will be splendid. And I'll contribute my quota to the dinner
instead of eating it at home," added Mr. Gilroy.

"We may have quail or partridge for dinner if we track the birds
carefully," suggested Joan, giggling.

"Venison steaks are better," hinted Mrs. Vernon.

"What's the matter with bear steaks, while we're about it? They're said
to be gamier in flavor," laughed Julie.

"We'll have all three, and serve a ten-course dinner to the boys," added
Ruth.

With light banter the scouts left Mr. Gilroy where the trails
diverged,--they to cross the crest and invite the boys over for supper
the next day, and Mr. Gilroy to go home to find the "bait."

Dandelion Camp was abandoned for a long time that day, and it was too
late in the afternoon when the scouts returned, to ask what had been
done in the woods during their absence; but a great deal had taken place
there, as Hiram and his master could have told had they been so
inclined. Even Jake could have testified to mysterious actions, and many
queer maneuvers of familiar animals from the barnyard, but the girls
never asked _him_. Their faith in Mr. Gilroy was sublime!

While the Dandelioners sat eating their camp supper, they discussed the
boys they had visited that day.

"I declare! I wonder if we ever _will_ know as much about the woods as
those Grey Fox boys do," sighed Hester, taking a bite of baked potato.

"Sure! We know almost as much as they do already," bragged Joan.

"They gave us a lovely luncheon--and all with nothing to do it with,"
added Judith.

"And it's up to us, girls, to give them a dinner that will make their
eyes pop out to-morrow!" declared Ruth.

"Let's plan it now, and do as much towards it as possible, then we can
give that much extra time to tracking," suggested Julie.

"And, scouts! I want you to display every bit of fine work you have done
since we've been in camp, and all the work we did at camp last summer,
as well, and brought with us this year," advised the Captain.

"Yes, we don't want those boys to think we don't know a thing! The stuff
we've made is so different from what they have, too," admitted the
leader.

So the evening was employed in arranging many exhibits to impress the
visitors the following afternoon. Then the scouts rolled into bed.

"Verny, you'd better set the alarm clock for four in the morning,"
called Julie, the last thing.

"Yes, we want to be up and ready to start when Gilly comes for us,"
added Joan, the Corporal.

"All right. Go to sleep now, or you'll all over-sleep," laughed the
Captain from her tent.

But there was no need of an alarm clock. The girls were up half an hour
before it rang, and were impatiently waiting for the arrival of their
instructor in tracking. Some of the scouts had gone into the bushes to
begin a search, but had found nothing.

It took but a few moments after Mr. Gilroy arrived to outline his plans
for the work and fun. "We will scatter in couples to hunt for any sort
of track whatever. The first couple that discovers any genuine track
must call out, then we all will run and study it for what it is, or
where it leads to. Now, pair off, scouts, but the Captain and I will
follow at a distance and hurry to the first pair who find a track."

"There are nine of us--how about the odd one?" asked Julie.

"Let the three youngest go together," returned the Captain. So Amy,
Betty and Judith hunted in trio.

It was a "still hunt" for a time, since every one was too intent on
finding a track to speak. Most of the scouts took to the dense bushes
and woods, but the Leader sought in a clearing and was the first to
summon the others.

"Oh, come, every one! We've found a great big track!" called Julie, as
she and her companion knelt to inspect the prints.

Every one raced wildly to the clearing, and, sure enough, there were
hoof prints distinctly marked in the soil. The trail led across the
clearing into the dense forest.

"Aren't they big?" excitedly asked Joan.

"They're made by a deer!" said Julie, boastfully.

"Are they, Gilly?" asked the girls as the Judge came up.

He pretended to study them carefully, and then said: "I shall have to
wait and compare them with those in the book."

"Maybe it is a reindeer?" suggested Betty, eagerly.

"Mercy no! We don't have reindeers south of the Pole!" declared her
sister.

"Look here, girls! This creature only had two legs--it left only two
hoofmarks, one for each side," cried Judith now.

"Then I know what it was! It was that familiar animal that carries a
pitchfork, smells of sulphur and is known to have hoofs," retorted
Julie, making them all laugh merrily.

"I'm sure I have no desire to trail _him_!" said the Captain, holding up
both hands as if to ward off such a danger. "Let him go to his lair in
peace!"

"All joking aside, girls, this is a queer track--only two feet instead
of four. Let's follow and see where it goes," suggested Mr. Gilroy.

So they trailed the plainly visible tracks, and after a distance, Julie
said: "Whatever it is, it couldn't have traveled so far as this if it
was a cripple. It just _couldn't_ walk on two hind legs all this way."

Mr. Gilroy had to laugh loudly at this, but he said, "No, but don't give
up hope! You may stumble right over the prostrate buck."

But the trail now crossed itself several times, and the scouts wondered
which way the two-legged creature finally went, for all tracks were
obliterated after that criss-cross place in a tiny clearing.

The Corporal was determined to pick it up again somewhere, so she
finally came out to the trail that ran from the camp to the bungalow.
Here she wandered up and down for a short distance, and then spied the
tracks again.

"Oh, I've got him again. He goes right up this trail," so she followed.

The others followed at a distance, and then she shouted, "He prowled
around Gilly's house, too, last night, for I see the hoofmarks here."

Julie would have gone after the tracks to the right "lair," but Hiram
came forward from the barnyard to meet her. He had heard her call to the
others, and offered a solution to the problem.

"I seen them tracks this mornin', too, Miss Julie, and I'm sure that
animal come to the barnyard las' night to feed offen the hay and corn he
could find around there."

"Oh, really! Would one do that?" asked Julie, amazed.

"Sure he would, if he was a deer. An' them tracks ain't no grizzly, er
fox, er other critter, you know."

"No; of course, it is a deer, as one can see by the tracks. But I'm
sorry we have to end in such an ordinary place as the barnyard," sighed
Julie.

"I see'd some queer tracks down by that log where Jake caught the
skunk," now hinted Hiram.

That was enough! In another moment every scout was bounding down the
trail in order to reach the spot first and win honor by knowing the
track correctly.

Hester found these tracks first, and shouted to her friends, "This has
small cloven feet, but there are only two legs, also! Now and then you
can see where one track looks as if a hind foot had broken in on another
one!"

"Oh, girls! That explains that other two-footed animal!" now exclaimed
Julie, quickly.

"What, what?" demanded every one eagerly.

"Most likely the deer stepped daintily with its hind feet directly in
the same track made by its forefeet. It said something about that in the
book, you know."

"Do you think that is it, Gilly?" now asked several anxious voices.

"Exactly! I was hoping you'd find that out," agreed he.

"Well, does this creature show any unusual tendencies, girls, by which
you can recognize it?" laughed Mrs. Vernon.

"Not a thing! It starts from the trail and goes right through the brush
where we broke a way that day the skunk was killed, and it stopped to
question nothing. It must have been in a hurry to get a drink,"
explained Joan.

The trail plainly led to the brook, and ended there. No sign of anything
going back again could be found, although the girls looked carefully
over the entire place. Then Julie thought she saw something in the soft
soil upon the opposite bank. To make sure, she waded through the shallow
but swiftly running water, and there, on the steep bank, she saw the
tracks again.

"Ha! I found 'em! plain as day. Come and follow!" called she. And off
she started.

Not more than a dozen yards along the top of the bank she found the
tracks go down again; and through the brook she went, up the other
side, and back to the brush-clearing on a new trail, following the
cloven-footed tracks. Out on the hard trail they were lost.

"Now, that makes two I've trailed and lost. It's a shame!" cried Julie,
stamping her foot.

"'Better to have trailed and lost than never to have found at all,'"
misquoted Mrs. Vernon, laughingly.

"If the first one was a deer, this second one must have been a little
fawn," said Judith.

"Is there any other animal that wears hoofs?" asked Ruth, of no one in
particular.

Now, Mr. Gilroy must have dreaded the reply, for he quickly changed the
subject. "How many of you brought the plaster and bottle of water?"
Every one had.

"Well, why not make a little cast of both the tracks you do not
recognize and then compare them with those in the book when we go back
to camp?"

This sounded fine, so the scouts were soon busy making casts of the
tracks. When hard, they were handed to the Captain and Mr. Gilroy to
carry carefully until they all reached camp.

Quite near the camp ground Hester made a discovery. "Oh, come and see!
Here is something with toes. As big as a wildcat, or maybe a little
bear!"

Yes, there were toes in this animal's tracks--as plain as could be. So
the scouts guessed every animal known, excepting the coyote and
water-loving creatures. After many futile suggestions, they made a
plaster cast of these tracks also.

"I'm going to carry this load back to camp, girls, and be ready for the
next one you give me," announced Mr. Gilroy, starting to go down the
trail.

The next two tracks, one that of a large-toed animal and the other of
one whose tracks showed how the hair grew down low on the hind
legs,--for the hair showed in several of the imprints made of
plaster,--strangely ended near the bungalow, and on the other side of
the hard trail again, they ran as far as the barnyard.

"I never saw the beat of it! Any one would think Gilly hung the bait on
the barn door to entice the animals here," said Julie, who was angry at
winding up at such a place three times running. Mr. Gilroy had to laugh
in spite of himself.

"Say, where did you put that bait, anyway, Gilly?" demanded the scout
leader, watching the man skeptically.

"Where we knew it would attract the best results."

"Gilly, I verily believe you are hoaxing us!" cried Julie. Mrs. Vernon
smiled at her bright scout, but Mr. Gilroy shook his head protestingly.

"Why should I hoax any one? I was laughing at the way you brave scouts
dodged when Joan said the animal they lost might be crouching on a
bough of the trees."

"No, that wasn't what made you laugh." Then Julie went over and held a
secret conference with her corporal and Ruth, and they, grinning, urged
her to do as she suggested.

So Julie took a sample of the different casts made in the tracks, and
left the others engaged in finding new and intricate tracks. Mr. Gilroy
and the Captain were not taken into the three scouts' confidence, but
they must have suspected where Julie proposed going, for soon after she
had gone Mrs. Vernon said:

"Girls, if we expect to entertain the Grey Fox boys at dinner this
afternoon, we'd better go back now and begin work."

"Without a clue to any wild animal we tracked?" sighed Judith.

"Oh, yes, Judy--we've got some fine clues, and by the time we're at camp
and have our books out, Julie will be back with proofs! Come on," was
Joan's assurance to the girls.

On the way, the scouts discussed the last track they had discovered. "I
was sure it was a crow's," asserted Amy.

"No, it was more like a chicken-hawk's," Hester added.

"There wouldn't be any chicken-hawk around here in these woods," said
Joan.

"Maybe it was the American Eagle," laughed Mr. Gilroy.

"Yes, it got tired of sitting on the flagpole where the colors have hung
for four days without being taken in at night, as they should be,"
remarked the Captain.

"Dear me, Verny, there is so much to remember in camp. We always
remember the flag after we are in bed at night," complained Ruth.

"The Orderly will have to appoint a flagman for each day after this,"
said Mrs. Vernon.

They finally reached camp, and had a light luncheon ready before Julie
returned. She came down the trail sprightly, with one hand holding
something behind her, and singing as she came.

"Where have you been, Julie?" asked several of the scouts.

"Did you find out what you went for?" asked others.

"Yep! I learned that we have among us the queerest sort of creature,
girls. It really walks on two legs, holds its head upright, and belongs
to the fox class. I tracked it right to our midst," laughed Julie.

The scouts seemed perplexed, and Julie, too full of her discoveries to
tease very long, said, "His name is 'Foxy Grandpa,' and you all know him
well!"

Every eye glanced at Mr. Gilroy, and he laughingly replied, "Why do you
all seem to think I am that animal?"

"Because you are, Gilly!" retorted Julie. "And I'll prove it now, to
every one's satisfaction."

"First, then: Did Hiram miss any calves or pigs or other domestic
animals from his barnyard yesterday?"

Mr. Gilroy threw up both hands in submission when he saw the knowing
look in the leader's eyes.

"Because here are the molds we made of the tracks found in the forest,
girls. And here are molds I made of the heifer, a pig, the Great Dane,
and a chicken, at the bungalow. Can you find any difference?"

Both the Captain and Mr. Gilroy laughed, but the scouts gasped in
unbelief, "Would Gilly do such a thing?"

Not one bit of difference was found when comparing the molds of each
animal, and then Mr. Gilroy had to tell how he did it. Of course, the
scouts laughed mirthlessly, for they were thinking of how those Grey Fox
boys would jeer at their woodcraft. But Julie now brought out in front,
the hand which had held something behind her.

"Here is the hawk--or American Eaglet. I brought it with me for dinner
to-night. To Gilly it will be crow-pie, but to us it will be spring
chicken." And the Leader tossed a dead chicken upon the grass. Then she
added:

"That's what happens to all 'critters' that trespass on our land. Hiram
tells me that when a farmer catches an animal on his land, he generally
holds it for ransom, or for food for himself, so we have not fared so
badly, scouts, in this day's work!

"Behold the other trophies coming! I took them because they broke the
law and trespassed on our estates last night." Julie waved a hand
dramatically towards the trail, and every one turned to look.

Hiram was slowly advancing toward camp, leading with one hand a
fractious pig, and with the other hand dragging an unwilling half-grown
heifer on a chain. Jake was jumping about and barking excitedly as they
came over and stood like prisoners at the bar.

"Mr. Foxy Grandpa," began Julie, as severely as she could, "because of
your crime of misleading trusting scouts into a snare, I pronounce this
judgment upon you, and therefore levy upon your property to satisfy the
judgment.

"This wild deer and its little fawn shall henceforth be the property of
the injured ones--insulted past all forgiveness by your fraud. And the
innocent victims used to perpetrate your schemes, being as free from
guile as the scouts themselves, shall dwell henceforth together in peace
and tranquillity!"

Every one laughed heartily at the d√©nouement for it was so like Julie;
but Mrs. Vernon added, "Julie you speak exactly like the millennial
times, when the lion and the lamb shall dwell in love and peace
together."

"The lion will dwell with the lamb, all right, but the lamb will be the
_piece_ inside the lion," added Mr. Gilroy; "just as this pig will live
in camp! Such a life as it will lead you!"

"No good talking 'sour grapes', now, Gilly," advised Julie, wisely. "The
calf and the pig remain, no matter what sort of life they lead us."

"What can you expect to do with two such pets?" asked Mr. Gilroy, who
was honestly amazed at the scouts' unexpected appropriation.

"First, build a pen for them, and second, have veal and pork before we
leave for home!" retorted Julie. She then ordered all the scouts to fall
to work and construct a temporary shelter for the two creatures.

Mr. Gilroy seemed too surprised to comment, and when Hiram finally
delivered the calf and pig into Julie's custody, Mr. Gilroy turned to
her and said, "Do you _really_ mean to keep the beasts, here in camp?"

"Why, of course! Why should we go to all this fuss for nothing?"

"Well, I can't see, yet, why you should?"

When the calf and pig were temporarily tied to a tree, where they seemed
as much at home as back in the barnyard, Julie said, "By the way, Gilly,
what did you call the pets when they were yours?"

"They have never been christened, because I waited for an opportune
time. It is here now!" returned Mr. Gilroy, picking up one of the
bottles of water that had done duty to make plaster casts that morning.

He held it over the calf's head and poured half of its contents out
while he said solemnly:

"Dear little deer, henceforth you shall be known as Julia, in honor of
the intrepid scout that captured you, single-handed.

"Likewise, this sweet little fawn, known by its tracks through the
wilderness, shall be named Ant-and-ett because of its peculiar
habits,--busy as an ant and eats all that comes its way!" Then the rest
of the water was emptied over the pig's head.

"_Antoinette_ it shall be, now and forever," declared Julie, while the
other scouts laughed uproariously. But the two names stuck, and
thereafter the calf was "Julia" and the pig was generally called by the
name of "Anty."

After the christening Mr. Gilroy beckoned for the Captain to join him
where the girls could not over-hear his conversation. "You don't suppose
the girls are in earnest about keeping the pig and calf at camp, do
you?" asked he, anxiously.

"Yes, certainly," laughed Mrs. Vernon. "You don't know girls of this
age, or you'd understand that they enjoy all these silly pranks
thoroughly, and really, they act as safety-valves."




CHAPTER TEN

THE GIRL SCOUTS ENTERTAIN


"Now, Gilly, you've got to help us build the sheds for Julia and Anty,
or go home until its time for the party," exclaimed the Leader, calling
to the still-wondering man.

"If we're to have any dinner ready for the Grey Foxes; I think Hiram and
Gilly ought to do the building of the sheds, and let us get busy with
the cooking," added the Corporal.

"Yes, that's a better plan," admitted Julie. "Come on, now, Gilly, don't
shirk your duty!"

So Mr. Gilroy and his man were set to do construction work, while the
scouts ran to and fro, fetching and carrying, arranging exhibits,
baking, cooking, and what-not, that Dandelion Troop need not take a
"back seat" in comparison with the Grey Foxes.

"Verny," whispered Julie, soon after the two men were sawing and nailing
at the sheds, "it's as plain as the nose on my face, that Gilly thinks
those boys are far cleverer than we girls."

"What makes you think so, Julie?" asked Joan, who was passing at the
time.

"Never mind, now, Jo, but we've just got to show him, as well as his
boys, that girl scouts know a heap more than they talk about. That's why
I'm anxious to make a 'ten-strike' with dinner!"

"It is too bad we were tricked with false tracks," said Mrs. Vernon.

"I don't believe those boys would have known any better, under the
circumstances, but of course, they won't admit it."

"Forget it!" said Julie, shortly. "And listen to me. Take all the
contents of our boxes out upon the cots, and call upon all the girls you
need to help in the work. Turn the packing cases upside down and cover
them with some of our embroidered covers; then arrange to the best
advantage, everything we can show for our past year in scoutdom.

"Try to group our exhibits according to their relationship with each
other, but leave all the Indian pots and dishes scattered about
carelessly as if we were accustomed to using them daily. The birchbark
baskets and articles can be hung about on tents or trees where they will
show off best,--but don't let it look as if the stunt was done on
purpose for this occasion--see?"

Joan smiled. "Yes, I see! Leave it to the Girl Scouts!"

So, although there was plenty of activity before, now there was no end
of rushing and laughing and planning between the scouts. The pots and
dishes Julie spoke of were left to Mrs. Vernon to place, and she
accomplished the task of studying carefully the apparent carelessness of
leaving the vessels about.

These Indian pots and dishes were the most interesting things the scouts
had made. It was simple work, and took but little time and no cost to
produce the results. And most effective they were.

They took a lump of clay and worked out all the hard bits, and sticks or
stones, then shaped it for the bottom of a bowl or pot. In its first
step it looked like a flat saucer, then it was left an hour or two,
according to the thickness of the clay, to dry well. After that the
sides were built up on this saucerlike bottom.

It was shaped the desired form, and patted into the thickness required,
then smoothed out nicely, both inside and out, and again dried as
before. Now it was baked in a hot fire for several hours, so that when
it was cool it was a fireproof bowl.

The only trouble the girls had had with this interesting art was the
carelessness of a few of them in cooling the dishes too quickly. They
found the clay invariably cracked when the pots were too quickly cooled
after taking them from the fire. But by slow degrees of cooling, which
took about three hours, they came out perfect.

The scouts had decorated their pots as they felt inclined, so that they
presented a varied and pleasing array as they stood about camp, in
places where the eye would see them to their best advantage. Some were
painted with wood-dyes, and others were etched in relief patterns.

When the Captain had finished her task, she silently drew the attention
of the scouts to the groups, and they all stood and smiled proudly at
their handiwork.

"We didn't see anything like that at Grey Fox Camp," bragged Judith to
Joan.

"No sir! Nor did they have a cookstove like ours! Alec may have made a
roasting-fan such as we never heard of before, but we can show him a
thing or two when he comes over!" exclaimed Joan.

At this moment Julie was heard calling the Orderly.

"How about that chicken? Some one's got to draw it so it can be cooked.
It ought to go on the fire in another half hour."

At this Mr. Gilroy called out, "You're not going to eat my chicken, are
you?"

"Sure! That's why I had Hiram wring its neck. I knew the poor thing
wouldn't object to being cooked if once its breath was gone," laughed
Julie.

"Dear me! It's my turn to draw the fowl and I hate it!" complained Ruth.

"S-sh!" warned Julie, waving a frying-pan at Ruth, "it is for the Cause
of Woman this time, so don't cry, Ruthy!"

"I'll help do it, Ruth," Betty now offered kindly. "I know how you
dislike the work, but 'Liza showed me how to do it so that it really
isn't half bad."

Betty poured scalding water over the chicken, and the feathers came off
easily. Then she slit the throat and breast and removed the entrails
without causing any repulsion in Ruth. When it was ready, Ruth admitted
that she knew she could do the work the next time without a qualm.

The cookstove the scouts were so proud of was a remarkable affair--even
Mr. Gilroy admitted that. Mrs. Vernon had discovered a heap of fine flat
stones, such as a surveyor uses for his "corners," and these were used.
The largest stones were placed against a tree that would act as draught
to the fire, and the mound was built up until it was a convenient height
to use without bending uncomfortably low, as is necessary with
campfires.

Through the center of this mound was a well, and on four sides of the
rounded mound were windowlike openings backed with tin; in these niches
various pots or pans could be kept hot while other viands were cooking
on top of the stove.

The top was made of a sheet of thin stove-iron which the Captain had
brought from home, and near the bottom of the mound was a tipping-stone
upon which the fire was laid. When the fire was out, its ashes could be
removed by tipping the flat stone over and letting the cinders fall to
the bottom, where they could be raked away quite easily.

This opening provided draught for the fire, and at the back, from the
fire-stone, an opening had been left, and here to several feet above the
top of the stove, a length of stove-pipe carried all smoke out and above
the heads of the scouts.

The girls had also built a fireless cooker in the ground just beside
their stove, where fish, or any article needing steady heat, could be
placed. This cooking-pit was constructed after the plan adopted by most
scouts, and described fully in the manual.

While Ruth and Betty were busy preparing the chicken, Mrs. Vernon built
a good fire in the stove, and had several of the girls heat the stones
in the fireless cooker, to be ready for use.

Mr. Gilroy had donated several fine lake trout that day, so these were
cleaned and washed and placed in the cooker-pit, where they would need
no watching but be done to a turn when wanted.

The chicken was cut up for a fricasee, and diced onions and potatoes
were prepared to add to the boiling liquid about an hour before serving.
This would provide not only soup for the first course, but chicken with
dumplings for a third course. They proposed having the fish with butter
sauce for the second course.

Just as Julie added the diced potatoes, Hester exclaimed, "Oh, Jule!
what did you do that for? Those duck-potatoes were meant to make the
boys' eyes bulge!"

"What duck-potatoes? I never touched them!" declared Julie, defensively.

"Didn't you cut them up and use them just now?"

"I should say not! After all the work we had in finding and digging
them! Why, they ought to be preserved--not eaten," laughed the Leader.

"Thank goodness!" sighed Hester, in such evident relief that every one
laughed sympathetically.

"Who's doing the Indian cucumbers?" called the Corporal.

"I am!" answered Judith. "They're all peeled and sliced ready to serve.
And Amy gathered the dandelion greens to go with them."

"Fine! Verny is making a mayonnaise to use with the salad. My! Won't
those boys have the wind taken out of their sails when they see the duck
potatoes and Indian cucumbers!" giggled Joan.

Mr. Gilroy had not missed much of all this whispering and joyous
confusion, and he chuckled to himself as he and Hiram finished nailing
the last boards on the sheds and turned Julia into her new home. The
small pigsty was soon completed, and then a fence was built about it,
but it was not calculated to keep a full-grown pig in bounds; it was
strong enough for Antoinette, however, at that time.

Before the pig-pen was quite finished, the scouts heard the whistles and
calls from the Grey Fox boys, as they hiked over the crest trail. So
they fluttered about anxiously to see that not an item on the programme
was forgotten.

Hiram was on his way to the bungalow, and Mr. Gilroy had hurried down to
the lake to wash up and make his dinner toilet, when the boys came gaily
into camp. After greeting their hostesses, the Grey Fox scouts looked
around.

"Well, guess you girls are planning to spread yourselves for dinner,
eh?" asked Alec, jocularly.

"Oh, nothing more than usual; we live high every day," returned Julie,
tossing her head.

Nothing more was said about dinner just then, but a loud call from
"Julia" drew all attention to her shed. The boys stared in surprise at
the two buildings they had never noticed before.

"Isn't that a pig--in that pen?" asked Ned, amazedly.

"No, it's Antoinette--our latest girl scout!" giggled Amy.

The boys laughed, for the name struck them as awfully funny for a pig.
Then they walked from Anty's pen to the shed, which had a door swung on
leather hinges, but it was closed.

"And what sort of scout do you lock up in here?" asked Bob,
condescendingly.

"Bob Veal!" retorted Julie, causing every one to roar at the questioner.

Bob flushed, but walked over to the stove where the Captain stood
stirring the dumplings in the chicken soup. "That's a fine stove,
Captain," ventured he.

"Yes, it is something like the one we built last year in camp. That was
so convenient we decided to have another this summer. Wouldn't you boys
like to examine it closely?"

Thereupon the Grey Foxes did examine it closely, much to their advantage
on useful ideas of kitchen equipment. Then they saw the fireless cooker
that was in use for the time being; so they passed on to inspect the
various birchbark hanging-baskets filled with flowers; the rustic
fern-boxes, and all the useful articles the scouts had manufactured of
birchbark and acorns.

"It takes a girl to do fancywork, all right. Now, we boys are not gifted
that way, you see, but we can make other things, instead," remarked
Alec, bestowing a male's compliments on feminine accomplishments.

"Just what can you make, or have done, that we girls are not able to
do?" demanded Julie.

"Oh, I wasn't personal in any way,--I just meant that it is quite
natural for women to do the light things while men have to look after
the business of life!"

"Well, the quicker you open your eyes to facts, and see that we women of
the present age are fast outstripping the men in _every_ calling, the
better it will be for your own good!" said Julie.

"Just glance around, boys, and tell us if you can make a better showing
for _your_ four years," added Joan, waving her hand at the various
exhibits.

It happened that the girls had each been given a cue by Julie, so that
when the Grey Fox boys came into camp, Judith was found sweeping
carefully with a camp-made broom, Amy and Betty were placing a tabletop
upon its legs and then starting to set the table, and the other scouts
were busy with other unusual things. Now Dick walked over to Judith.

"How did you know you could make a broom like this?" said he.

"Why, this is an old one made the first day we came to camp. You ought
to see our new ones. They are fine!"

Dick examined the broom, and called Alec over. "They can make brooms,
all right, Alec!" said he, showing the article in question. It was made
of long hickory shavings, well bound about a good handle, and promised
to outlast any dozen store brooms.

"But why sweep this grass,--that's foolish," said Alec.

"No, because this is where we will sit about the table. We always sweep
away the crumbs or trash that fall during mealtime, so the ants and
other insects won't annoy us. This morning, however, we were in such a
hurry to get out with Gilly, that we forgot the usual routine work in
camp," explained Judith.

The two boys exchanged glances, but Judith saw them. Alec then said,
smilingly, "Oh, yes! How did that track-hunt come off? I suppose you
scouts knew every animal, eh?"

Judith now realized that Mr. Gilroy had had the whole joke planned out
with the Grey Fox boys, and that the boys were only waiting to have a
good old laugh on the girls. So she deliberately told a lie,--fervently
praying that it be forgiven for the "Cause of Women."

She glanced roguishly up at Alec, and winked one eye. "Wasn't it too
funny for anything,--the way we led Gilly about by the nose?"

The boys stared in surprise for a moment, then Dick said, "What do you
mean? Didn't you scouts go out at dawn with Gilly to study tracks?"

"Sure! But didn't you boys know about the joke we made up on him about
those tracks? That's why he is so late to dinner."

"Tell us about it?" eagerly begged both boys.

"Oh! I can't. I thought you knew something about it or you wouldn't have
grinned the way you did. I'm so sorry I let the cat out of the bag, for
likely, our Leader wants to tell you the story while we all are at
dinner," cried Judith, the picture of regret.

"Oh, come on and tell! Now that you've said so much!" coaxed Dick.

"Well, you boys walk around and look over our work and I'll run and ask
Julie if I may tell you the story," whispered Judith, giggling, and
running over to the Leader's side.

When Julie heard the truth from Judith, she was furious, but she soon
saw that she must thrust anger behind her, and plan some clever way to
reverse the joke and make it fall upon the originator. In fact, at that
moment, the scouts wished all kinds of dreadful things upon their
benefactor, Mr. Gilroy.

He, however, unaware of their ire, was walking up the trail from the
lake to the camp-site. And the boys, who were told to amuse themselves
for a time, were certainly finding more good ideas put into useful form
at that camp than they ever dreamed of.

The large square table was constructed of the boards removed from a
piano-case which Gilly had at the barn. These were all nailed to a frame
and furnished a strong, heavy top that could be placed, at will, on the
four sturdy posts that were driven into the ground. These table-legs
were only fifteen inches above the ground, so one could sit on the grass
and conveniently use the top.

The four boys met at a large rustic shelf-cupboard, constructed of
short-length boards taken from a cereal box, and placed so as to make
four shelves. Two sides were made of boards that came from one of the
packing-cases from the city. This cupboard stood against a great pine
tree that furnished the backing, and on the shelves were the array of
lanterns and candlesticks made and used in camp.

"Gee! They've got the bottle-neck holder, the tin-can lantern, and all
the rest. It seems they know the scout stunts, all right," whispered
Ned.

"Yes, and look at these candles! Do you suppose they made them in camp?
They look like hand-dipped products," added Alec, examining the tallow
candles.

"We won't let on that we're curious, but we'll find out from Gilly just
how they made these candles," suggested Bob.

From the shelves that held candles and some clay ornaments the boys
wandered over to the sun-dial.

"It's better than the one we made," admitted Ned.

"Humph! So it is," said Alec, reluctantly, but willing to be just.

"Whoever did that burnt-wood etching around the edge sure made a fine
job of it. And the numerals are very good," added Bob.

"Gilly said Ruth is the artist of the Troop," said Dick.

But the Grey Foxes never found out that the Indian Clock had been made
during the previous winter when there was ample time to spend over such
a work. The large wooden slab was sent to camp with many other highly
decorative things made the same winter.

Mr. Gilroy now joined the boys and offered to act as official guide in
viewing everything. So interested were the boys in all they saw that
they temporarily forgot about the joke of the tracking.

"Come and see the Indian willow beds the scouts made the first day in
camp," said Mr. Gilroy, boastfully, now that he wanted to impress the
boys.

So the beds, the weaving looms, the birdhouses here and there, and other
things were duly seen and admired. But the exhibit that interested the
boys as much as anything that day was the neat and beautiful work done
with wild flowers and a deal of patience. There were blue-prints of
delicate flowers, as well as shadow-work and pressed and mounted
flower-groups.

Alec recognized the three-leaved arrow-head, and showed it to the other
boys who had never seen it before. This particular specimen was white
and waxen in contrast to the indigo-hued paper.

The spiderwort was a rich blue with its two large petals rounded, while
the third one was tiny and colorless. There was also a purple variety
known as "Job's Tears."

The wild leek and garlic flowers made dainty blue-prints, scarcely
recognizable as coming from such humble family trees as the despised
onion. Wild spikenard, with its crown of tiny white flowers, also
reproduced beautifully in the blue-print. The Seal of Solomon and purple
Twisted Stalk made scraggy pictures easy to identify.

Betty had pressed a white trillium that made an imposing picture,
retaining all its beauty and lines. The boys had the painted trillium
in their collection but had never seen the white one.

In the flower collection made by the other scouts were many
orchids,--fringed-purple, ragged-fringed, yellow-fringed, and others.
Also the Indian pink, the rattlesnake plantain, the pink snake-mouth,
monkshood, bloodroot, pitcher plant, and numerous others that formed a
wonderful exhibit which it would take a long time to do justice to.

While the Grey Foxes were poring over the flower books, Mrs. Vernon came
up beside them. "When you boys are through here, we will sit down to
dinner, as everything is ready to serve."

"Oh, we'll look at the rest of these another time," said Bob, quickly.

So the Captain led them over to the table, where the appearance of the
festive board caused them to smack their lips. Mr. Gilroy and the Grey
Fox boys were seated according to Julie's directions, then the girls all
went over to the cookstove.

At each place on the table sat a flat clay-made plate that was to do
service for many needs. Beside the plate were the birchbark cup to drink
water from, a birchbark napkin ring that held a paper napkin, and the
usual knife, fork and spoon.

In the center of the table stood a lovely fern centerpiece, the holder
woven of split willows, and the fern dug up in the woods and
transplanted into a tin pail that did not show inside the basket.

The fernery was flanked by two other handwoven baskets of sweet-grass.
One held the scout-biscuits just baked, while the other was piled high
with light little puff-cakes. On either side of the centerpiece stood
two large flat clay platters,--one held the Indian cucumber salad, and
the other a dandelion salad.

"Aren't the girls going to sit down, too?" called Alec.

"Yes, but each girl has to serve a boy's soup as well as her own. Then
we will sit down," answered Julie.

Meantime Joan was whispering anxiously, as each girl held out the clay
bowls for soup, "Now remember! Leave the tracking tale to Julie, and
agree with her everytime! Don't you dare be caught napping this time!"

And as each scout left the stove with her two bowls of soup, she
whispered. "No, leave it to me! We'll get the best of Gilly for this
joke."

The chicken soup was highly praised, and truly it was a good broth and
deserved all praise. Then came the fish,--all done to a turn and served
piping hot with butter sauce. The Indian cucumber went well with the
lake trout, and here the boys had another surprise.

"Indian cucumbers! We never knew they grew around here," ventured Alec,
but delighting in the salad just the same.

"Oh, didn't you? Well, you see, it takes a girl's fancy touches to
secure these sort of things. You boys, of course, have to give your time
to doing big things," was Julie's sarcastic reply.

The third course consisted of the chicken and dumplings, stewed bracken,
and a side dish of vegetable that looked for all the world like small
potatoes. The boys studied these curiously.

"It's quite digestible," laughed Mrs. Vernon.

"But be sure to appreciate them,--they are the only Wapitos we've ever
found!" declared Joan, proudly.

"Wapitos! You don't mean it!" exclaimed Alec, eagerly.

"Why, where did you find them?" asked the other boys.

"One morning when we were out tracking," said Julie, with a careless
manner. Then quickly added, "Oh, Captain, where are the Brussels
sprouts? We almost forgot that vegetable."

The Orderly jumped up and ran to the stove where, in one of the niches,
stood the bowl of charlock hearts, a wild green that tastes exactly like
tender sprouts. These are easy to cultivate in a garden, too, and are
not as expensive as Brussels sprouts.

"My, what a spread this is!" sighed Bob, ecstatically.

Every one laughed, for Bob and Anne were the gourmands of the two
troops, and were never ashamed to admit when they enjoyed a thing.

"Yes, it's some dinner, all right. Made a lot of work, didn't it?" added
Alec.

"Oh, not so much as usual," returned Julie. "We really had planned a
more elaborate affair, but the joke we played on Gilly took longer than
we allowed for it, and so we had to scramble the dinner."

Julie smiled benignly upon the guests, but they exchanged looks with Mr.
Gilroy at the mention of a joke. So she continued:

"Because of that joke, you have ordinary chicken for a meat course,
whereas I had hoped to give you a real dainty, stewed wild rabbit. But
our snares were left unbaited while we planned to come in first on Gilly
and his proposed prank. I don't suppose you know a thing about it, do
you?"

The girls gasped at their Leader's mention of a rabbit snare,--this was
the first they knew of such a thing! And since Bunty Grey had taken up
his residence nearby their camp, after his recovery from the old trap
down on River Bend, not one scout girl could be made to taste rabbit.

The boys were keen to hear about the joke on their friend Gilroy, but
_he_ wanted to know about rabbits. So he asked:

"Where did you set any snares? This is news to me!"

"Is it? Why we caught a rabbit in a snare set down by River Bend, but we
haven't stewed it yet," returned Julie, smiling angelically at Mr.
Gilroy.

"Never mind snares, but tell us about the tracking," now urged Alec.

"There isn't much to tell--excepting that we let him indulge himself in
the belief that he was fooling us," began Julie. "While we were at your
camp, to invite you here to-day, Gilly had all his hands turn the
barnyard beasts out and led them a dance about our campgrounds,
believing we would fall for his little game.

"He took so much pains and trouble over the joke, that we hadn't the
heart to undeceive him, so we played the game through.

"But it was hard work to keep straight faces, wasn't it, girls?" Julie
appealed to her companions.

"Yes, indeed! And when Julie left us to bring back the proof of his
joking, that was best of all," added Joan.

"Yes, you see I got him to say that hunters who found a wild animal
could claim it, if it was in season, so I went to the barn where I
_knew_ our 'wild animals' would be, and not only found them, but caught
them, also. Being in season, we claimed them. Thus we turned Gilly's
joke on himself, as he sure was amazed to find that we took him at his
word, and kept the 'ferocious' beasts!" Julie laughed so heartily that
every one joined in, never doubting but that the merriment was natural
and genuine.

"So that is how we became owners of the calf, the pig, and the nice
spring chicken you just finished," added Julie.

Mr. Gilroy now cleared his throat to say something in self-defence, but
every one laughed loudly again, the boys believing Julie's tale, and the
girls hoping to keep up the deception.

"Poor dear old Gilly! We renamed him this morning. He is to be Foxy
Grandpa hereafter, you know; not alone because he told the Grey Foxes
what he was going to do, but because he planned such a beautiful snare
and ran into it himself," said Joan.

"As if you boys would believe we were 'greenies' in camplife! Why, just
look around and see our work! Is there anything here to prove we are
such ignoramuses as to believe a calf-track could possibly be a
deer-print?" asked Julie, scornfully.

"You're right, you girls sure can do scout things," said Alec,
admiringly.

"This dinner alone would prove it!" exclaimed Bob.

"Any one who can find Indian cucumbers and Wapitos, when we boys have
hunted and hunted, and never succeeded, is a first-class scout, and no
mistake about it!" declared Dick, enthusiastically. So Mr. Gilroy
decided not to speak in self-defence any more.

The dinner wound up with wild-current tarts, puff-cakes, and coffee made
from roots and roasted acorns, pulverized.

"Lady Scouts, let me toast you for this wonderful success, not only in
culinary art, but also in founding a curious menagerie," said Mr.
Gilroy, standing and holding up his coffee before drinking it.

"Before we adjourn from this feast, let me ask one question," said Alec,
as they prepared to get up from the table.

"What was it in that salad dressing that gave such a palatable flavor? I
never tasted anything like it before."

The scouts smiled with pleasure, and Mrs. Vernon said, "That taste was
given by adding a few leaves of burnet to the salad. It was not the
dressing; but few people know what a wonderful flavor burnet gives to
salad. It would be used more often did chefs know this simple little
wildwood fact."

While the girls were clearing away the dishes, Mrs. Vernon spoke very
seriously to Julie about the tale she told. "You did not tell an
absolute untruth, yet you did not voice the truth, because we all _were_
taken in by those tracks!"

"But, Verny! surely you wouldn't have these mere males _think_ we were
such gullible scouts, would you? It would be a disgrace for the whole
organization!" cried Julie.

"I never advocate self-righteousness in covering up an error of judgment
or knowledge. The Scout Committee on Ideals would not approve of the
tale you told to vindicate the 'Cause of Women,' as you claim."

"I suppose you are right in your viewpoint, Verny, but it wasn't fair of
Gilly to play that prank on us, and tell those boys beforehand, too,"
pouted Julie.

"Well, let it pass this time, Verny, and we'll promise never to be
guilty of misappropriating the truth again," said Joan.

"And don't give us away to the Grey Foxes!" added Judith.

The Captain shook her head in disapproval, but she said nothing more, so
the girls ran off to whisper to Mr. Gilroy that he was the cause of a
dreadful quarrel!




CHAPTER ELEVEN

A CANOE TRIP


The scouts were so busy with canoeing, swimming, and hiking, during the
week following the dinner-party that they saw very little of Mr. Gilroy,
although they knew whenever he called at the camp, because he generally
brought feed for the calf and pig. These two unusual pets were becoming
quite sociable, and would follow the girls around the clearing when
meals were being prepared. Jake always went wherever the scouts went,
and he particularly enjoyed the long walks. But he ignored the calf and
pig completely when in camp.

About a week after the Grey Fox boys had visited Dandelion Camp, Mr.
Gilroy came down early in the morning.

"I have to get up at dawn if I want a word with you scouts, these
times," laughed he, as he caught them eating breakfast.

"Sit down and have some," Julie invited, making room for him beside her.

"Can't--haven't time. I've got an important engagement with the Grey Fox
boys, but you were first on my calling list."

The girls all halted further progress on the breakfast and listened
intently. "What have you plotted, now?" asked Julie.

Mr. Gilroy laughed as he remembered the tracking joke. "I'm almost
afraid to tell you." But after much coaxing he spoke.

"Well, then, I am going on a little fishing trip to Racquette Lake, so I
wondered if you scouts wouldn't like to canoe with the party and spend a
few days that way?"

The girls gave such a chorus of approval that Mr. Gilroy pretended to
stop both ears.

"Oh, do tell them all about it, Gilly, or we'll be deaf!" begged Mrs.
Vernon, laughing at the commotion.

So Mr. Gilroy described the itinerary to the great delight of his
hearers. "But remember, girls, no extra baggage is allowed. You wear
your uniforms, take bathing suits, and sandals, a wide soft hat that
will stick to your head, as few toilet requisites as possible;
individual eating outfit, blanket and sleeping-bag, fishing tackle, and
your powder puffs."

The last item caused a jeer, for the girls hadn't thought of
beautifiers, other than those Nature presented, since they joined the
scout organization. Nor did they need any,--they were all fine and rosy,
with perfect complexions and good health.

"My Indian, Yhon, is going in a canoe with the cooking outfit and other
necessities for so large a party. He is a splendid guide, you know, and
knows the country like a book."

"What can we do about our pets?" Betty asked, concernedly.

"Oh, Jake will go with us, of course, and Julia and Anty will have to
depend on Gilly's man for meals. They will learn to appreciate us if we
are absent a few days," replied Julie, audaciously.

"When did you plan to start?" now asked the Captain.

"Day after to-morrow, as early in the morning as we can. That gives you
all day to-morrow to get ready and come up to the bungalow for supper at
night. Yhon will be ready with the canoes at dawn in the morning, and we
start from our boathouse. The canoe-wagon is coming here to-day to carry
your three canoes over to First Lake so as to be in good shape for the
trip. Yhon will overhaul them all, and look after any caulking or
repairs."

"Dear me, I can't wait for the time to come!" exclaimed several of the
scouts.

"And if you become seasick on the voyage, you'll be just as anxious to
get back," laughed Mr. Gilroy, causing the girls to giggle in chorus at
his ridiculous speech.

So on the morning mentioned, a merry crowd of girls and boys followed
the Captain and Mr. Gilroy to the boathouse on the lake. Yhon was
waiting with everything ready, but it was still dim and misty over the
water, as the daylight was not yet strong.

Jake instantly jumped into Yhon's canoe as if he knew it paid to be near
the larder. Mr. Gilroy arranged the party so that one lightweight member
was in each canoe with one of the heavier girls, and one of the boys. He
took charge of another canoe with two girls in it, while the Captain
managed still another one with two in it. Thus they started in a line,
Yhon leading.

As they moved noiselessly out from the shadow of the overhanging rocks
and foliage, the dew sparkled like silver drops on all the leaves; every
now and then a hungry fish would leap up to bite the paddles, and then
whisk its tail angrily as it flashed away again.

The newly awakened sun had not yet risen high enough to cast its rays
upon the lake, and the mountain that threw somber shadows over the face
of the lake, still hid the shining of the orb of day. The expectancy and
hush that always precedes the bursting forth of shining light,
enthralled all the wild creatures in the woods.

Yhon had been silently guiding his flock over the water, closely hugging
the shore all the way, when the high treble call of a young fawn echoed
far over the lake. It was so unexpected that the scouts were startled,
but the Indian called over his shoulder, "Li'l deer lose mammy--call her
back!"

Then, not twenty yards further on, Yhon stopped paddling, and pointed
with a long finger towards the shore. There stood the fawn on a rock
near the water's edge, its head held high as it gazed with consternation
at so many queer things floating on the lake.

Mrs. Vernon took a splendid picture of the deer, before a crashing of
branches and the rattle of pebbles announced that the doe was leaping to
the rescue of her little one. But she could not be seen, as she was wise
in woodlore and remained safely screened from men. Possibly she knew
that a human carried a death-dealing weapon when he sought her in the
forests.

The canoes passed through First Lake, then through Second Lake, and at
last through Third Lake--all of which were really one large continuous
sheet of water. Where Third Lake Creek emptied into the large body of
water, Yhon led the canoes close to shore. He knew that the best lake
trout were to be caught where the creek emptied, and here he proposed to
fish for the dinner supply.

"But we don't want dinner, yet, Yhon," called Mrs. Vernon.

"We eat on Cedar Islan' but him got no fish dere. Get my fish here,"
explained Yhon, as he jumped ashore.

All were glad of an opportunity to stretch their legs, and then they
tried their luck at fishing, also. After a time this became monotonous
for the active young ones, and they started up the Creek to adventure.
The Third Lake Creek came down over moss-covered rocks, which were held
in place by gnarled roots of giant trees. These ancient foresters stood
looking benignly down upon the placid waters of the lake, as if watching
the play of a little child.

Where the Creek swirled out to join Third Lake, the purplish circles
made there gradually lost their foaming haste and gently merged into the
wavelets of clear cold water.

As the scouts climbed up the rugged bank of the Creek, the towering
trees were not the only things that watched silently. Although the happy
young mortals were deaf and blind to the many alert curious eyes that
followed their movements, still those eyes were there, wondering at this
daring trespass over their domains. Some of these wildwood inhabitants
were furtively anxious, some hostile, but all were curious to follow the
movements of these queer creatures.

Finally the scouts could not penetrate further, and they retraced their
steps. Yhon had caught enough fish for the day's needs, and was ready to
continue the trip.

From Third Lake Creek he paddled across to the opposite shore and thence
through Fourth Lake. They stopped at Skensowane to purchase crackers,
candy, and other sweets, while Yhon took on a supply of staples.

Cedar Island was at the extreme upper end of Fourth Lake, and long
before the scouts saw the green knob standing plainly up from the water,
they were hungry enough to eat the grass on the island. So every one
assisted with the dinner to facilitate the eating of it.

Yhon was one of the best guides in the mountains, and his experience in
cooking was unsurpassed; hence the scouts enjoyed an exceptional dinner.

When all were ready to continue the trip, Yhon led across from Cedar
Island to Inlet, where there was a "carry" of a mile to reach Sixth
Lake.

"Phew! Carry the canoes a mile in the hot sun!" cried Bob.

"That's part of the fun in canoeing," remarked Mr. Gilroy, as they
disembarked and prepared to carry.

"I'm glad of the change," said Judith. "My knees are all out of joint
from sitting with them doubled under me."

Thereupon every one declared it a relief to walk and get the kinks out
of the leg-muscles. But after a mile in the heat, with canoe and outfit
to carry, every one was just as glad to get back and sit down in the
canoes.

The trip through Sixth and Seventh Lakes was wonderful. The grandeur of
the mountains and the marvelous greens of their verdure reflected in the
narrow lakes, made the water seem a dark emerald green as clear and
transparent as a perfect jewel.

Occasionally, faint shadows of birds flying overhead, or deer leaping on
the rocks on the banks were reflected in the water as the canoeists
silently paddled along, and such entrancing pictures seen in the placid
lake thrilled the scouts with delight.

Here and there, where a stream rushed down into the lake, the scouts
could look up through the wide rifts cleft between the forest-trees, and
the eye could follow up where falls tumbled over boulders; or to the
higher view, where the blue sky showed a tiny streak between the pines.

Once a flight of wild ducks suddenly rose from the lake, quacking
noisily. The boys called to Yhon to shoot, but he held up a warning hand
to show that this was no season for duck-hunting.

In nearing the upper end of Seventh Lake where the inlet empties into
it, Yhon called out, "Nudder carry--mile to Eight Lake."

But before they reached land, the Captain called for a halt. She wanted
to take a snapshot of the picture made by the inlet, seemingly in such a
hurry to reach the lake, yet making no noise nor showing any froth in
its haste. The Lake seemed to draw its shores close together to hug the
Inlet, just as a mother draws her babe to her bosom in love. In small
coves on either side of the Inlet were patches of green marsh grass and
cattails, the home of the wild ducks which rose to escape the coming of
the canoeists.

As the faint odorous whiff of marshgrass reached the nostrils of the
scouts, they wanted to paddle in and cut cattails, but Yhon said there
was no time then. "Plenty time on home trip."

Through Eighth Lake to Brown's Inlet Carry was a distance of about two
miles, and when they reached shore on Brown's Inlet, Yhon called out,
"Nudder carry--mile-half dis time to Brown Tract Inlet."

The command to carry began to sound tiresome to the scouts, and they
were glad to hear Mr. Gilroy say that this carry would be the last one,
as Brown's Tract Inlet brought them right to Racquette Lake where they
planned to camp for the night.

It was quite late when they reached the lower end of Racquette Lake,
because the progress had been slow and safe. Mr. Gilroy had not
telephoned for accommodations at any hotel, as they planned to camp at
night.

But the wind that came with the setting of the sun also threatened a
storm during the night, and Mr. Gilroy thought it best to find a place
near a large hotel, in case they had to seek shelter. So they paddled to
find a grove quite near one of the larger hotels. The scouts were eager
to land and get their camp ready before darkness handicapped them, so
when within a few yards of land, Hester turned to pull out her blankets.

The sudden motion overturned the canoe, and all three occupants went
headlong into the water. The frightened screams of the three scouts
caused consternation in the others, and many turned around quickly to
see what had happened behind them. Thus, two more canoe-loads were
unexpectedly emptied into the lake.

They were soon out on shore, but drenched and shivering from the cold
water. "Now, isn't that the worst thing that could happen to us, at
night!" sighed Mrs. Vernon.

"We'll have to stop at a hotel, now, and let the scouts get in bed while
their clothing dries," said Mr. Gilroy.

So the wet ones were advised to dance about to keep warm, while Alec and
Mr. Gilroy hurried over to the hotel to engage rooms. But they soon came
back with surprised looks.

"Not a corner to be had, and the manager called up other large places
along the shore only to get the same answer--no room. He said there was
a family boarding-house some distance along, where we might get in. The
woman, a Mrs. Dickens, was a nice landlady and might tuck us in
somewhere. Shall we try it?" said Mr. Gilroy.

"It is so dark now, and we haven't started supper or found a spot to
camp, so I think we had best try Mrs. Dickens," replied the Captain.

In chilly silence the entire party got back into its canoes and skirted
the shore until Mr. Gilroy called out to Yhon, "This must be the spot
where I was told to land. The house is back from the lake, a bit."

The canoeists had no difficulty in locating the boarding-house, but they
were too late for a hot dinner, although the cold supper served was very
good, especially to hungry young people.

"I haven't any rooms left in the main house," explained Mrs. Dickens,
"but I can give you several rooms in the annex. That used to be the
help's cottage, but I had it done over to rent this season."

"'Any port in a storm,' madam, and our 'storm' consists of several
soaking suits that have to be dried," returned Mr. Gilroy.

"The cottage has a small kitchen where you can quickly light a fire in
the stove and dry everything. I think you will be very comfortable
there," said Mrs. Dickens. So arrangements were made for the use of the
cottage for that night.

As they planned to start early in the morning again, the entire party
retired soon after supper. The wet clothing had been hung on lines about
the kitchen, where a servant had built a roaring fire. Although they had
to "double up" in bed, or sleep on the floor, they were too healthily
sleepy to mind such little things, and before ten o'clock every one was
asleep.




CHAPTER TWELVE

FIRST AID


Mrs. Vernon was a very light sleeper, consequently she was aroused a
short time after midnight by cries and calls for help. She sprang from
the bed and ran to a side window that opened towards the kitchen side of
the boarding-house. All she could see was a dull glare that filled the
kitchen windows. But she understood.

Instantly, she ran to Mr. Gilroy's room and knocked loudly while she
cried, "Get up--everybody--the boarding-house, next door, is on fire!"

In a moment Mr. Gilroy jumped up and shouted, "All right--we'll be out
in a jiffy!" Then Mrs. Vernon ran back to pull the girls out of bed and
have them dress as speedily as possible.

The clothing in the kitchen was dry, and soon the girls were dressing
and, at the same time, talking excitedly of the fire.

"I'm sorry Mrs. Dickens has had this misfortune, but as long as it
happens while we are here, we must try to earn a medal," said Mrs.
Vernon, as she breathlessly pulled a middy-blouse over her head.

"What can girls do?" asked Amy, eagerly.

"I don't know yet, but every little thing helps in a time like this.
Just obey orders from Mr. Gilroy or me, and follow the example Julie is
sure to give you," said Mrs. Vernon, glancing at the scout she
mentioned, because Julie might run unnecessary risks for herself, but if
she thought she was responsible for the other girls her zeal would be
tempered wisely.

"What do they give scouts a medal for, Verny?" now asked Judith, as she
twisted her long hair up in a tight coil on her head.

"If occasion arises for a scout to display great heroism, or if she
faces extreme danger in trying to save a life, she can have the bronze
medal--the highest award given. If she does a brave deed with
considerable danger to herself, she wins a silver cross. But no scout is
to run needless risk just to win a medal of any kind."

While the Captain spoke, the scouts finished their hurried dressing and
now followed her out to the lawn in front of the large house.

Here the scene was one of great confusion and panic. Men were hastily
moving articles of furniture and boarders' personal effects out of the
three-storied building. Smoke poured from all the rear windows, and the
roof seemed enveloped in heavy smoke-clouds.

"Isn't there any volunteer fire department?" called Julie, to every one
in general and no one in particular.

"Where is it?" asked Alec of a man standing next to him.

"We got a ring and hammer up yonder, and a hand-engine, but I hain't
hear'n no one strike the signal," said he.

"Come along, show me where it is," ordered Alec, catching hold of the
man's sleeve and pulling him away from the staring crowd.

Once the man had broken away from the mesmeric influence of the
fire-watchers, he ran quickly with Alec to the knoll where a metal hoop
and hammer were kept for the purpose of alarm in case of fire. Almost
before the two reached the spot, Alec caught the hammer and was striking
the metal at regular intervals. The man then offered to remain and send
the volunteer firemen to the place where they were needed, so Alec ran
back to help as best he could.

Meantime, the girl scouts realized there was much to do to help others,
and the Captain ordered every one to use the utmost presence of mind in
doing anything they were called upon to do.

Julie hastily whispered to Joan, "I'm going to run to the cottage and
get that coil of rope we brought from the canoe last night, we may need
it."

"I'll run with you, Julie, for we must tie wet towels over our mouths,
if we have to go inside there," added Joan.

Both girls raced to their room, and when they came out they were
provided with the rope, and the dripping towels were tied across their
nostrils and mouths. As they stood momentarily on the little porch of
the cottage to see where they might render the best service, the uproar
from the upper stories in the rear was awful.

"There may be some people trapped in their rooms up there!" exclaimed
Julie to her companion.

"We can climb up this rose-trellis quite easily, Jule, and get in at the
windows of the second story where the piazza roof gives us a foothold,"
hastily returned Joan.

In another moment both girls were quickly climbing up the strong
trellis, and as soon as they reached the tin roof they ran to the
window. Here they found a young mother sitting on the floor, rocking a
baby back and forth while she cried wildly with hysteria. The child was
held so tightly that it, too, was screaming.

While Julie uncoiled the rope, Joan ran to the washstand and dipped a
towel in the pitcher. But Julie called to her, "Bring the jug of water
here, we've got to break this hysteric spell!"

Joan carried the towel in one hand and the pitcher in the other, so
Julie caught the jug from her, and dashed the water in the woman's face.
The sudden choking and shock broke the spell. Then the towel was hastily
pinned over the lower part of her face and she was hurried to the door.
But the smoke and heat caused the girls to slam the door to again and
run to the window.

"Hey--down there!" yelled Julie, to a group of men on the flower-bed.
"Hold out a blanket while we drop the baby down."

"No--no!" screamed the mother, trying to get away from the grasp of
strong young Joan. "You'll kill it!"

"Give me the child, I'll carry it down the trellis," said Julie, but the
mother would not relax her grip on her baby.

"Where's that rope, Jo?" now asked Julie.

"Over by the window we went in at," cried Joan, having all she could do
to restrain the woman from throwing herself and babe down from the roof.

So in another moment, Julie had the rope tied to a window shutter, and
with the other end in hand was over by the woman.

"Here--stand still, will you, while we fix this and let you down to the
ground!" commanded she, and the woman instantly obeyed.

Then both girls lowered the two slowly over the edge of the roof, down
to where willing hands were raised to catch them. There was a wild
acclaim as mother and child were saved, but the two scouts were not
aware of it, as they were back inside the room again, taking their
precious rope with them. Before they could determine what to do next, a
queer form burst into the room.

"Where's the rope you've been using, girls?" demanded the voice of Alec.
But he was completely covered by his rubber sleeping-bag, in which he
had slit holes for his feet and arms.

Had it been any other time than such a moment, both girls must have
doubled over in merriment at his appearance.

"Here it is, Alec. Where did you come from?" cried both scouts in one
voice.

"Upstairs. I got up on the roof by climbing the water-spout, and in a
dormer-room up there I found an old crippled woman, crying for help, but
with no one to hear her until I climbed in from the scuttle-hole. A
little old-fashioned stairway runs from the third floor down into the
closet in this room. But I can't get her down those narrow stairs, and
the other stairway and halls are a mass of fire. I've got to lower her
from the roof, but I need help."

"We'll help!" eagerly offered both the girls. So, with the coil of rope,
they followed Alec through the smoke-filled room into the large dark
closet, and thus, up the scuttle-hole stairs that had been abandoned for
many years,--perhaps forgotten entirely, until this need.

In the front end of the third story there was not much smoke as yet, so
the three could see their way plainly. And in a small gable-room having
a small window high from the floor moaned an old woman of more than
seventy years. The moment she saw Alec return with two girls to help,
she stopped wailing and tried to be courageous.

"Now we may hurt you some when you are being moved, but you must bear
it, Gran'ma," said Alec, gently. The old lady smiled reassuringly.

"Children, anything is better than being roasted up in this little room.
Don't worry over hurting me but do whatever is necessary," quavered the
sweet old voice.

"Now, girls, I'm going to shinny up the scuttle-hole in the roof and
carry the rope with me. I'll tie it securely to the chimney on the roof
and let down the other end. Fasten this about Grandma's waist and we'll
try to lift her out that way. You two must help by holding her as much
as possible, and by boosting from below."

While Alec climbed up the wall-ladder and got out to the roof, Julie and
Joan made a roll of blankets and placed it about the old lady's form
under the arms. Then they looped the rope over this and secured it also
under her arms.

"All ready, Alec!" called Julie, holding her charge by one arm while
Joan held her by the other.

As Alec hauled, hand over hand on the rope, the two scouts beneath
lifted and then boosted the old lady until she was safely through the
opening in the roof. Then Alec leaned over and called to them:

"If you can manage to run down and get through that room again, escape
by way of the piazza-roof and send the firemen up from the outside with
their ladders. I'll wait on the front roof with Grandma."

So Julie and Joan rushed down the little attic-stairs, back through the
smoke-filled room which was now dreadfully hot from the fire, and out of
the other room window to the piazza roof. Once on the ground, a curious
mob tried to surround them to ask all sorts of foolish questions, but
Julie was equal to two mobs. With muscular arms and fists striking right
and left, she quickly forced a passage and made her way to the spot
where the Fire-Chief was ordering the men about.

"Mr. Chief, run a ladder up to the roof where you see that scout
standing. He's got an old crippled woman to save. Maybe the rope will
reach and maybe it won't, so use your own judgment," called Julie,
pointing up to where Alec could be dimly seen through the smoke.

"Hoist a ladder, boys! See that scout up on the roof with Mrs. Dickens'
mother?" shouted the Chief, anxiously watching the roof.

While every one stood and in breathless suspense watched the firemen run
up a long ladder and assist Alec in saving the poor helpless woman, Mrs.
Dickens came distractedly from the rear of the house and ran about
seeking for her mother. When she learned that it was her mother they
were trying to save, she fainted with fright. But the old lady was
safely brought to the ground, and a great fuss was made over Alec. Then
Mrs. Dickens was revived, and when she found her aged mother beside her
on the grass, she almost fainted again from joy and gratitude.

The house was doomed even before the firemen reached the scene, for it
was constructed, as so many summer boarding-houses are at seashore and
mountain resorts, of thin novelty-siding outside and oil-stained ceiling
boards inside; these act like kindling wood once they are ignited.

The crowd stood, now, and watched the flames lick up everything in
sight, but every one was thankful that no lives were lost. The scouts,
both girls and boys, had worked so faithfully that all the silver and
linen were saved, and the men had removed much of the best furniture in
the ground-floor rooms.

The sun, that morning, rose on a scene of confusion and pathos. Guests
who had been able to save most of their effects were assisting less
fortunate ones to dress in all kinds of apparel. Neighbors from nearby
cottages were caring for the homeless boarders, until order could be
brought out of the chaotic condition.

But the cottages were few, and the guests many, so some one must suggest
a plan to meet the immediate needs. It was Mr. Gilroy who thought of a
way.

"We all sympathize with Mrs. Dickens in her distress, but it might have
been worse, friends,--we all realize that,--and so we feel grateful that
no lives were lost. But here it is breakfast-time, and there are many
hungry mouths to fill, and I would suggest that you accept a scout
breakfast with us as soon as it is ready."

Every one responded to such a hearty invitation, and Mr. Gilroy added,
"Then we'll show you how to prepare a good meal with no stove or
kitchen, and with but few pots or pans."

The boys were sent out on the lake to get the fish; the girls were told
to knead the dough for scout-twists, and place them at the fire Mr.
Gilroy was building. To interest the weary boarders, Mr. Gilroy had
started his campfire with rubbing-sticks and had arranged the
bread-sticks upon which the dough was twined, to the best advantage for
all to watch while the twists baked.

Most of the dishes had been saved from the fire, and these were now used
for breakfast. Several large tablecloths had been spread out upon the
smooth grass, and plates set around on the squares of linen.

The fish had been cleaned by Yhon when caught, and now the boys returned
with a nice mess--enough for every one that morning. Mrs. Dickens kept
all her extra stock of food in the little loft of the cottage, and as
this annex was spared any damage by the fire, there was a supply of
cereals, flour, bacon, and other necessities for meals. With the thrift
of a good housekeeper, Mrs. Dickens had laid in a stock of purchases
when the Army Supply had been sold off at auction in the city. So Mrs.
Vernon found gallon cans of stewed prunes and other food-products on
hand.

In spite of all trouble and perplexities that morning, breakfast was a
cheerful meal. Prunes for fruit; hominy and other prepared cereals for a
second course; then fresh fish, fried in corn-meal jackets and browned
in bacon-fat, furnished a delicious third course with the hot
scout-bread. And all this was topped off with fragrant coffee.

Naturally, the conversation was about one thing--the fire and the
courage shown by the three scouts. The equally helpful work done by Mrs.
Vernon and the other scouts in caring for those who were rescued,
received but small notice. But they never as much as thought of it--with
Julie and Joan in a fair way to win a medal that would lift the entire
Troop to recognition at Headquarters in New York.

When breakfast was over, Mr. Gilroy expressed his other idea. "I have a
plan that may meet with general approval, but that remains to be seen.
Now listen carefully, while I speak, and then do as you like afterwards.
My boys and these girls are willing to teach you how to do what I am
about to propose, and help in any way we can to make every one
comfortable for the time being.

"You have no house to sleep in, and Mrs. Dickens will have no boarders
to help her meet her expenses and loss, unless we immediately find some
way to change all this seeming trouble. So this is my suggestion:

"We scouts are accustomed to sleeping out-of-doors and thus we know how
to make the finest beds out of the material Nature provides. We will
show every one how to weave these balsam beds that are superior to any
handmade spring and hair mattress.

"While you people are completing your beds, we will paddle up to a place
Yhon told me about, where a number of Indians camp. They make and sell
tents to parties coming to the Adirondacks for the summer. Then at the
end of the season they will buy them back and pay prices according to
the condition the tents are in. Perhaps we can rent a number of tents,
as the summer is now half over.

"If enough boarders agree to this plan, and will insure the risk to Mrs.
Dickens by advancing the money necessary to pay for the tents, we scouts
will go after the tents for you and bring them back in our canoes.

"Mrs. Dickens says she can quickly have a pavilion built that will
answer for a dining-room, but any one who does not care for 'roughing'
it in tent-life must find other accommodations. All such can have meals
in the pavilion, but must take second table as boarders remaining in
camp will naturally have first claim on the hostess' service."

After a noisy debate, in which most of the ousted guests found these
plans and future delights pleasant to discuss, the majority voted to
remain and take up tent-life. Thus it happened that Mrs. Dickens was
helped out of the financial ruin that had stared her in the face a few
hours before, and the guests were treated to a rare experience,--living
in the open in the wonderful woods.

The scouts started every one cutting the young tips of the balsams for
their bedding, then paddled after Yhon in the canoes, up the Marion
River to Bear Creek, where the guide knew several of his friends to have
camps for the summer. They had tents to hire or for sale, and were only
too glad to furnish all that were needed for the houseless boarders at
Dickens' Landing.

The tent-outfits were carefully packed inside the canoes, and the scouts
joyfully paddled back, realizing that "What blesses one, blesses all" in
this working out of a good idea.

When the scouts landed with the tents and found that enough balsam had
been stripped for the beds, they began to weave the tips as all scouts
know how to do. Meantime, Mr. Gilroy, Yhon, and several of the men
raised the tents and secured them in such places as Mrs. Dickens
selected. The balsam beds were then made up in the tents, and before
evening, every one was provided with room and beds, thanks to the
scouts.

As the canoes left that shore, they were sped with many blessings, for
they had done a great thing for those standing on the rocks, watching
them depart.




CHAPTER THIRTEEN

SHOOTING THE RAPIDS--AND OTHER THINGS


"Well, 'where do we go from here, boys?'" called Mr. Gilroy, laughingly,
as he looked back over his shoulder at the scouts.

"Anywhere but home!" exclaimed Julie.

"Why not there? Don't you like my camp-ground?" asked Mr. Gilroy,
teasingly.

"Of course, but after such a night and day we won't want to settle down
again into quiet life. We have to let ourselves down gradually," laughed
Alec.

"Well, then, we'll ask Yhon where to go to-day," agreed Mr. Gilroy.

"Ride the rapids," returned Yhon, as if that was enough said.

Such a shout that greeted this suggestion proved he was right in his
surmise. Finally, when Mrs. Vernon could be heard, she asked, "Where are
they--far from Raquette Lake?"

"Yhon, I suppose you mean those on the route to Forked Lake, through
Raquette River to Long Lake, eh?" said Mr. Gilroy.

"Um! Up Raquette Fall to Corey an' 'en to Sar'nac."

"Saranac Lake! Oh, I've always wanted to see it!" cried Julie.

"Do let's go, Gilly!" begged other voices.

"Shall we take a vote on it?" laughed Mr. Gilroy.

"Why waste time--it is unanimously decided already," retorted Alec for
the boys.

"Yhon, I'm afraid you've let me in for trouble!" cried Mr. Gilroy, but
he turned his canoe just the same, and led the way.

The scouts now followed Mr. Gilroy and Yhon across the mouth of the
Marion River, and rounded Woods' Point. Across Boulder Bay, to Bluff
Point, they paddled, and carefully rounding this point they entered
Outlet Bay. Then the usual route was taken up the bay until they reached
Forked Lake Carry.

They were all in high spirits and the short carry only added to their
enjoyment. The canoes were launched again in Forked Lake waters and they
paddled until the end of the lake was reached. Where it joins Raquette
River was a carry of a mile and a half, and seeing that it was noon and
time for luncheon, Mr. Gilroy said:

"Why not have something to eat first, and carry afterwards?"

"Oh, that will add to the work of carrying," retorted Julie. "Not only
canoes but food!"

But the boys were for eating, so they scanned the shore carefully as
they slowly moved through the water, until Yhon saw a place he
considered suitable for camp. Here a fire was soon started, and the
four boys were sent out to fish. The girls were left to bake the bread
and prepare the rest of the meal.

In spite of their most skillful efforts, the boys did not have good
luck, and returned with but a small catch of fish. Hilarity due to the
way the boys told how they had to fish made up for the lack and for
everything else. When everything was packed neatly again, and all were
ready to start, Jake gave a wild leap and landed too near the edge of
Yhon's canoe. Over it went, staples and outfits all going down into the
water.

"Oh, all our sugar and salt--and everything!" cried Julie.

Yhon never changed a muscle of his face, although he must have been
taken by surprise when he was precipitated into the water. The outfits,
hampers, and other things were quickly salvaged and restored to the
canoe, but Jake sat in disgrace on the bank, and hung his head as if he
understood just what he had done.

So much time had been used in rescuing Yhon, in fishing their food-stock
out of the water, and coaxing Jake back into the canoe, that it was late
when the scouts reached Deerland Lodge.

"What say you, scouts,--shall we stop at the Lodge, or take a chance up
Long Lake until we reach a point where we can strike off to reach
Hendrick Spring, the fountainhead of the Hudson River?" asked Mr.
Gilroy.

"And where shall we camp?" asked Mrs. Vernon.

"It might be nice to camp at the spring," suggested Alec.

"Oh, yes, let's do that, Gilly!" cried several voices.

So they kept right on, paddling swiftly along until they reached a place
on the shore where Yhon said they must land if they proposed going to
Hendrick Spring.

"Oh, I thought we could canoe there," ventured Julie.

"No, we must leave Yhon here to watch the canoes while we hike along the
trail that goes there. We can carry our sleeping-bags and take enough
food for supper, then come back early in the morning for a good
breakfast with Yhon," explained Mr. Gilroy.

"Is there no way we might take to return to Fulton Chain Lakes other
than going back the same route?" questioned Mrs. Vernon.

"No, we shall have to go the way we come, or be willing to _carry_
overland for many miles, from one water to the other."

"Oh, no, that is out of the question," said the Captain.

So each scout took a sleeping-bag and cup and plate, while the boys
carried the extra cooking outfit, and Alec his rifle.

The trail led through a most wonderful primeval forest where lichened
stones, moss-clothed fallen trees and luxuriant foliage of standing
timber furnished homes for countless wild creatures.

They had not gone far before a ruddy-hued fox tried to back out of their
way on the trail, and managed successfully to merge his color with that
of the yellow-brown verdure about him. Further on, Alec suddenly lifted
his rifle and aimed, but the furtive mottled animal that had been
crouching along the mottled limb of a tree leaped back with the least
possible noise or disturbance of the foliage, and was gone!

"That was _some_ wildcat, but she was too slick for me!" said Alec, when
questioned about missing it.

The scouts saw so many unfamiliar birds that they wished they had
carried a bird book on the trip to help them identify all they now saw.
Notes were taken, however, to help them look up and catalogue the
varieties, later, in camp. There were many other interesting living
creatures, also; some half-hid under leaves or twigs, others squatting
daringly in the open, with questioning eyes fixed on these clumsy
intruders.

Finally the scouts reached Hendrick Springs, but to their consternation
the place was already tenanted with undesirable tramps. Mr. Gilroy
politely questioned the three men who claimed to be timber-jacks, but
their empty package that had contained food and the quart bottle that
had once been filled with whiskey, now also empty, belied their story.

Their hardened faces, unkempt appearance, and other earmarks caused a
little apprehension in the hearts of the girls and Mrs. Vernon; but soon
after the new arrivals started their fire to cook supper, the three
tramps got up and quietly left.

Scanty beds of balsam were soon made for the night for the girls, but
the boys preferred to sleep upon the grass. After a few campfire tales,
they decided who was to keep the fire burning all night to ward off any
wild animals, and also to guard against the return of the evil-looking
tramps.

"We girls want to take our turn in watching, as well as the boys,
Gilly!" declared Joan, when she heard how the guard was to be divided up
for the night.

"Oh, you girls need sleep, but we don't," said Bob.

"We are just as hale as any of you boys, and we want to do our bit!"
exclaimed Julie, decidedly.

"Well, then, if you must, you will!" sighed Mr. Gilroy, comically. "Now
I have to begin all over again and figure out this problem. Let's see:

"First, Alec and Bob mount guard two hours; then Dick and Ned guard for
two more; then Julie and Joan; and lastly, all the other girls and
myself. How is that?"

Every one laughed, for Julie and Joan were now getting all they
bargained for. So Alec and Bob went on duty, while the rest stretched
out and fell asleep.

At eleven o'clock the next two boys were called; but at one o'clock,
when it was time to rouse Julie and Joan, Mr. Gilroy crept over and
motioned the boys to let him mount duty for a time. It was nearly three
when Julie woke up and rubbed her eyes. She instantly realized that no
one had called her, so she nudged Joan and got her up. Then they crept
over to the campfire and scolded Mr. Gilroy for breaking faith with
them. He laughed and gladly went back to finish his night's repose.

Having been so sound asleep just before going on duty, and being utterly
tired out with the day's experiences, the two girls sat by the fire
endeavoring to keep each other fully awake. But the Sand Man was too
powerful for them to resist his dreamy influence, and soon Joan dozed
while Julie yawned and did her best to keep her eyelids open.

An hour passed and Joan was sweetly sleeping, while Julie was nodding,
heavy with sleep. Suddenly a crackling of branches behind them caused
Julie to start wide awake.

"Joan, are you awake?" whispered Julie fearfully, shaking her friend.

"Sure--why?" mumbled Joan, sitting up to rub her eyes.

    [Illustration: "Where--which way did you hear them?" questioned
    Joan ... Page 211]

"I heard some one--maybe those tramps are back to do something,"
whispered Julie, trying to peer through the misty night.

"Where--which way did you hear them?" questioned Joan, now fully awake,
too.

"See those long shadows by the trees, over there?" returned Julie. "I'll
pile a lot more wood on the fire and make it blaze so we can see them if
they come nearer."

So saying, she threw so much wood on the fire that it instantly
smothered the red glow and began smoking like a chimney. The smoke drove
the girls from that side of the fire and caused them to cough violently,
while there was a lively scrambling of feet over by the trees, and both
girls began calling:

"Gilly! Gilly, wake up! The tramps are here!"

That cry brought every one to his feet, and the moment all heads got the
benefit of the smoke, every one began coughing. But they managed to
creep along the ground to the side of the fire, where the two girls
stood gazing at the trees in question.

Just as Alec crept up beside the scouts with rifle up ready to aim at
whatever he found skulking about them, there sounded a frightful
screeching, and hoarse calls came from the lower branches of the tree.

"I knew it! I saw them creep over and heard them climb," cried Julie,
quaking with excitement.

"They planned to drop something on our heads, I guess," added Joan, her
eyes bulging as she tried to see into the foliage.

Just as Alec decided to take aim and fire haphazardly, knowing that he
could not see in the dark but could frighten the tramps, Bob caught hold
of his arm. He was unaware that it held a gun that was cocked ready to
fire.

The rifle went off prematurely, the shot hit the mark without Alec's
trying for it, and a heavy thud informed the scouts that the bullet was
fatal! Instantly, however, there was such a commotion in the leaves, and
such a Bedlam of screeching! Finally a great flock of crows swept out of
the high tree and flew away to find a less dangerous roost.

The first streaks of dawn were penetrating the forest's darkness when
the offended crows left their ancestral tree; and the scouts looked at
each other in surprise. But Alec was sure it was not a crow he had
downed--it was too heavy for that!

So the boys crept carefully over to the place where they thought to find
the body of a tramp, while the girls followed at a respectful distance.
Then the relieved cry from Alec, and the laughing calls from the other
boys, hurried the girls to join their friends.

There they saw a dead wildcat of truly awesome size. In its clenched
teeth it still held the young nestling--the object of its nocturnal
climb into the tree. Alec's unexpected shot had hit true and had done
for the crafty animal.

"Well, this is some trophy to carry back home, eh?" cried Alec
delightedly, as he turned the cat over with his foot.

"I'm glad you didn't kill anything more than the wildcat," added Mrs.
Vernon.

"If you boys intend carrying that back to camp, you'll have to skin it
now and take only the pelt. You can't be bothered with the heavy beast
itself. Leave the carcass for the wild denizens that will be glad to
feed on this, their enemy," advised Mr. Gilroy.

"And do give us the crow! If it hadn't been for Joan and me you wouldn't
have had the wildcat!" exclaimed Julie.

"If it hadn't been for you two imaginative scouts we all would still be
snoozing peacefully beside the fire," laughed Alec.




CHAPTER FOURTEEN

THE GRAND SURPRISE


When the scouts returned to their camp beside Little Moose Lake, they
were impressed anew with the peace and beauty of the spot. The canoe
trip had been delightful and exciting, but all were glad to get back to
a simple life once more.

Having seen the scout girls safely back home, and their canoes in the
lake for future use, Mr. Gilroy sighed and said, "Now I shall take a
long rest and recover from the past few days' work!"

A few days after their return from the "voyage," as they called it, the
scout girls received a bundle of mail. In it were newspapers, many
letters, and other interesting items. The papers were all "marked
copies," and the mail proved to be letters filled with congratulations
and words of praise for the brave girls.

"Why, they must be crazy! Every one's writing about what we did at the
fire!" laughed Julie.

"Yes, just listen to this from 'Liza, every one!" called out Betty. And
she read: "'So I sez to yer Pa, yu've got two fine scouts in them girls,
Mister Lee, and this proves it. Any girl what will climb the side of a
house to save folkses from burning, is wuth a lot of lazy,
good-fer-nothin' boys, I sez.'"

Every one laughed heartily at the praise thus bestowed upon them; but
Betty said regretfully, "It's too bad I didn't do as much as Julie did
at that fire. Daddy won't feel very proud of me, I'm afraid!"

"Oh, but you did, Betty! You ran for the Captain and did all sorts of
stunts we couldn't have done. But not every one could climb like Jo and
I do!" said Julie, soothingly.

"Oh, girls!" exclaimed the Captain, who had been hurriedly glancing over
one of the papers received. "Listen to this from a New York paper. Oh, I
am so proud of you all!" Then she read:

"'At a recent fire that destroyed Dickens' Hotel at Raquette Lake,
Adirondacks, a group of girl scouts known as the Dandelion Troop saved
many lives and did heroic work in saving property. One of the hotel
guests told our local reporter the story and we print his own words.'"

Then followed an account of the fire, and how it started because of a
defective flue in the kitchen chimney. It told in detail all that the
girls did, but the story merely mentioned Alec and _his_ courageous act.
At the last of the story, a full description was given of how the balsam
beds were made, and how the boarders were now enjoying themselves in
tent-life and out-of-door camp cooking. And all this was due, it said,
to the Girl Scouts being able to teach the homeless boarders how to
help themselves with the bountiful supply from Nature.

That morning, Mr. Gilroy came down to the camp to hear the news, for he
also had received several papers with the story of the fire in them.
After the excitement of reading it all over again to him, the girls
quieted down to hear what he wished to say.

"I came to see about your plans for next summer's outing," said he.

The girls looked at him quizzically, for they thought he was joking.
Mrs. Vernon gasped, "Next summer! We're not through with this year yet!"

"I know that, but 'In times of peace prepare for war,' you know,"
laughed he.

"Tell us why you asked?" demanded Julie.

"Because I am planning a trip for my next outing, and I am debating
whether to invite any girl scouts to go with me."

"Where? Aren't you going to stay here next summer?" was the answer from
several girls.

"No, I have had an important letter to-day. And I am going to accept the
offer made me by the Government, but it will cost any girl scout more to
go with _me_ than it did to come to the Adirondacks."

"Then that settles our going! We haven't a cent left over after this
outing. If it hadn't been for those escaped felons last year we wouldn't
have been here, I suppose!" sighed Julie.

"If it had not been the reward for the capture of the two felons that
proved to be the means to bring you to the Adirondacks, there would have
been some other way of finding the supply for you. You see, girls, there
is always plenty of everything for you when the Source is unlimited,"
said Mr. Gilroy.

"Not one of us in Dandelion Troop have such a banker," laughed Judith.

"Then, if this is so, why need we worry about expenses for next summer's
outing with you?" added Joan, in response to his remark.

"I didn't ask you to worry," retorted Mr. Gilroy. "I only asked you to
remember that you have the invitation, but it is up to you to find the
channel of supply and break down the dam, so the supply will run
smoothly and continuously for your needs."

"How much shall we need, Gilly?" asked Julie, deeply interested in his
words.

"More than a thousand dollars for you all, I know that! But how much
more depends upon our itinerary, and that depends on the Captain."

"Oh, does she know about it?" chorused the girls.

"Not yet, but she will, shortly," laughed Mr. Gilroy.

All the coaxings from nine persuasive girls failed to move Mr. Gilroy
from the stand he had taken--not to tell about the next summer's plans.

But a week later, when the scouts were well nigh forgetting all about
his conversation, he brought a pleasant-faced gentleman to the camp to
visit the girls.

"This is Mr. Everard, scouts. He is anxious to meet Julia and
Antoinette, since I told him what clever rascals they are. Do you think
they will do their tricks for company?"

Mr. Everard laughed merrily, and it was readily seen that he had not
come to see the calf and pig do the little tricks which the scouts had
taught them. However, the calf and pig were brought out, and they
performed as they had been trained to do, during many strenuous hours,
and they won the applause of the stranger. Then he spoke of the real
cause of his visit.

"I am one of the investigators of the Carnegie Reward Society, and
having heard of your bravery in the recent fire at Raquette Lake, I was
sent here to ascertain various facts. From all accounts, the rescues you
made were not only courageous and daring, but spectacular as well. It
made a fine tale for the newspapers. One of the leading men on a
metropolitan daily sent us a note asking whether such deeds were not
rewarded by us."

The scouts were too amazed to speak, but Mrs. Vernon spoke for them. She
thanked Mr. Everard for coming, and said how pleased they all were that
others appreciated the deeds performed by the Dandelion Scouts.

"The medal will be given at the same time the reward of money is
presented. So I need the names of the girls who took an active part in
the rescues. Those who rendered First Aid to the sufferers may be
awarded minor medals--I am not sure of that yet," explained Mr. Everard.

"But Alec did as much as Jo and I, Gilly," said Julie, "although they
didn't say much about him in the papers."

"That has been corrected, but you didn't see the papers of the following
day. And Alec is to receive exactly the same reward as you girls,"
returned Mr. Gilroy.

Mr. Everard did not mention the amount of money that was likely to
arrive with the medals, but Mrs. Vernon spoke of it later. The two men
left camp, and Mr. Everard was taken over to Grey Fox Camp to meet the
boys.

"Verny, maybe that reward will be the nest-egg of the supply we must
have to go with Gilly next summer!" declared Julie excitedly, after both
men had disappeared from view.

"I was thinking of that when Mr. Everard spoke," said Mrs. Vernon.

"I wonder how much they give to one--about a hundred dollars, I
suppose," ventured Joan.

"Oh, no! I've heard their cash rewards range from a thousand and down to
five hundred dollars, according to the valor of the deed," replied the
Captain.

"A thousand!" chorused the scouts in amazement.

"Why, that would take us all on Gilly's trip," said Julie.

"Maybe; but we don't know where he plans to go. If it is around the
world, I fear the reward will not carry you all that far," rejoined Mrs.
Vernon, smilingly.

A few days after Mr. Everard's visit at camp, Mr. Gilroy came again.
"Well, scouts! was I right when I told you not to limit your supply to
any old-fashioned mill-pond?"

"You're always right--how could you _ever_ be mistaken?" was Julie's
retort.

He laughed. "Now, this flow of supply from the boundless Source I
preached about will give you the means to accept my invitation for next
year."

"We have already accepted, and are arranging to be absent from home for
the length of time it takes to go to Jericho and back again," answered
Julie.

"Not to the Far East," laughed Mr. Gilroy, "but to the most wonderful
mountains on earth, though the public has not realized that fact,
because they are not yet the fashion. They are fast reaching that
recognition, however. At present one can go there without being pestered
by souvenir peddlers."

"Do tell us where it is, now that you've told us this much," begged the
girls. But Mr. Gilroy shook his head and left them guessing.

The last of August was passing quickly, and the scouts sighed whenever
they remembered that they must close the wonderful camp the first week
of September. There was still, however, one delight in store for them.
That was the County Fair, held the first three days of September. They
had entered Julia and Antoinette to compete for prizes in their
individual classes.

The boys, as well as the girls, spent those days at the Fair Grounds,
showing the tricks Julia and the pig could do, and also going about
seeking votes for their pets. The result of this faithful work was seen
when the prizes were awarded.

Dandelion Scout Camp won First Prize of a hundred dollars for having the
heaviest and finest pig exhibited that year. Another fifty dollars came
for Antoinette's being the best amateur trick animal shown that year.

Julia won second prize of fifty dollars for having the required number
of points in breeding and development. Then, after the fair closed, an
animal trainer who made his living going about giving shows of trick
animals made an offer for the two pets, saying he had seen them perform
at the fair.

"What shall we do? Suppose the man is cruel to them?" asked Julie,
worried over the disposal of Julia and Anty.

"It can't be much worse than sending them to a butcher," remarked Mr.
Gilroy.

"Oh, mercy! We never could sell them for meat!" cried Joan.

"I shall never eat another mouthful of veal or pork," added Betty,
fervently.

"None of us will ever eat meat again!" declared the others.

"But that doesn't answer this letter," the Captain reminded them.

"The man offers a good price, girls, and having so much capital
invested, he will surely take care of the investment," said Mr. Gilroy.

"Y-e-s, that's so! Well, I'll tell you what, girls," said Julie. "Let's
make him double his offer, and that will make him still more
appreciative of Julia and Anty. If he takes it, all right. If he
doesn't, we can write to some other Zoo trainer, now that we know we
have two fine trained pets."

But the animal trainer expected a "come-back," and was only too glad to
secure Julia and Anty at the price the scouts mentioned. And that added
materially to the fund for the next summer's outing--wherever it was to
be.

The day the trainer came to take possession of his newly acquired pets,
the girls felt blue over saying good-by to them. Anty had been so
thoroughly scrubbed that she glistened, and Julia had been brushed and
currycombed until she looked like satin.

"Oh, Anty! Shake hands just once more," wailed Judith, as she held out
her hand to the pig.

Anty immediately stood upon her hind legs and held out a hoof that had
made such distracting imprints for the scouts early in the summer.

"I'll buy the little bark shed, too. I know that all pets love their own
little sleeping-places and get so used to them they never feel at home
in new quarters. I'll take the pen with me," said the trainer.

So Anty was the means of adding to the coffer of gold the scouts were
now dreaming of. And the artistic little bark house was taken away for
Anty's especial use thereafter.

After the departure of Julia and Antoinette, the scouts felt lonely, and
the camp was soon dismantled of all the exhibits that had been used for
decorations that summer. Everything was packed and shipped back home,
and then came the day when Mr. Bentley came in his touring car to assist
in the transportation of the campers to their old homes and families.

As they all stood on the verandah of the bungalow shaking hands with Mr.
Gilroy and telling him what a precious old dear he was to have bothered
with them all summer, he said:

"But you haven't asked me for the itinerary for next year."

"We have, again and again, but you said it was not yet time for that!"
exclaimed Julie.

"Well, it _is_ time now. I have to spend all next summer in the Rocky
Mountains collecting specimens of glacial deposits, so I need your
company to keep me cheerful. It is up to you to win the consent of your
people and save the money for the trip."

Such a chorus of youthful voices as greeted that wondrous prospect made
the adults laugh.

"You seem to welcome the idea of camping in the Rockies?" suggested Mr.
Gilroy, as the scouts piled into the cars ready to go home.

"Do we! Well, Gilly, just you wait and see if we are not with you next
year in those Rockies!" laughed Julie.




       *       *       *       *       *


_THIS ISN'T ALL!_

Would you like to know what became of the good friends you have made in
this book?

Would you like to read other stories continuing their adventures and
experiences, or other books quite as entertaining by the same author?

On the _reverse side_ of the wrapper which comes with this book, you
will find a wonderful list of stories which you can buy at the same
store where you got this book.

_Don't throw away the Wrapper_

_Use it as a handy catalog of the books you want some day to have. But
in case you do mislay it, write to the Publishers for a complete
catalog._




GIRL SCOUTS SERIES

By LILLIAN ELIZABETH ROY

Author of the "Polly Brewster Books"

    Handsomely Bound. Colored Wrappers. Illustrated.
    Each Volume Complete in Itself.

Here is a series that holds the same position for girls that the Tom
Slade and Roy Blakeley books hold for boys. They are delightful stories
of Girl Scout camp life amid beautiful surroundings and are filled with
stirring adventures.

GIRL SCOUTS AT DANDELION CAMP

This is a story which centers around the making and the enjoying of a
mountain camp, spiced with the fun of a lively troop of Girl Scouts. The
charm of living in the woods, of learning woodcraft of all sorts, of
adventuring into the unknown, combine to make a busy and an exciting
summer for the girls.

GIRL SCOUTS IN THE ADIRONDACKS

New scenery, new problems of camping, association with a neighboring
camp of Boy Scouts, and a long canoe trip with them through the Fulton
Chain, all in the setting of the marvelous Adirondacks, bring to the
girls enlargement of horizon, new development, and new joys.

GIRL SCOUTS IN THE ROCKIES

On horseback from Denver through Estes Park as far as the Continental
Divide, climbing peaks, riding wild trails, canoeing through canyons,
shooting rapids, encountering a landslide, a summer blizzard, a sand
storm, wild animals, and forest fires, the girls pack the days full with
unforgettable experiences.

GIRL SCOUTS IN ARIZONA AND NEW MEXICO

The Girl Scouts visit the mountains and deserts of Arizona and New
Mexico. They travel over the old Santa Fe trail, cross the Painted
Desert, and visit the Grand Canyon. Their exciting adventures form a
most interesting story.

GIRL SCOUTS IN THE REDWOODS

The girls spend their summer in the Redwoods of California and
incidentally find a way to induce a famous motion picture director in
Hollywood to offer to produce a film that stars the Girl Scouts of
America.




THE LILIAN GARIS BOOKS

    Attractively Bound. Illustrated. Individual Colored Wrappers.
    Every Volume Complete in Itself.

Lilian Garis is one of the writers who always wrote. She expressed
herself in verse from early school days and it was then predicted that
Lilian Mack would one day become a writer. Justifying this sentiment,
while still at high school, she took charge of the woman's page for a
city paper and her work there attracted such favorable attention that
she left school to take entire charge of the woman's page for the
largest daily in an important Eastern city.

Mrs. Garis turned to girls' books directly after her marriage, and of
these she has written many. She believes in girls, studies them and
depicts them with pen both skilled and sympathetic.

BARBARA HALE: A DOCTOR'S DAUGHTER

BARBARA HALE AND COZETTE

GLORIA: A GIRL AND HER DAD

GLORIA AT BOARDING SCHOOL

JOAN: JUST GIRL

JOAN'S GARDEN OF ADVENTURE

CONNIE LORING'S AMBITION

CONNIE LORING'S DILEMMA




AMY BELL MARLOWE'S BOOKS FOR GIRLS

Charming, Fresh and Original Stories

    Illustrated. Wrappers printed in colors with individual design for
    each story

Miss Marlowe's books for girls are somewhat of the
type of Miss Alcott and also Mrs. Meade; but all are
thoroughly up-to-date and wholly American in scene and
action. Good, clean absorbing tales that all girls thoroughly
enjoy.

THE OLDEST OF FOUR; Or, Natalie's Way Out.

A sweet story of the struggles of a live girl to keep a family from
want.

THE GIRLS AT HILLCREST FARM; Or, The Secret of the Rocks.

Relating the trials of two girls who take boarders on an old farm.

A LITTLE MISS NOBODY; Or, With the Girls of Pinewood Hall.

Tells of a schoolgirl who was literally a nobody until she solved the
mystery of her identity.

THE GIRL FROM SUNSET RANCH; Or, Alone in a Great City.

A ranch girl comes to New York to meet relatives she has never seen. Her
adventures make unusually good reading.

WYN'S CAMPING DAYS; Or, The Outing of the GO-AHEAD CLUB.

A tale of happy days on the water and under canvas, with a touch of
mystery and considerable excitement.

FRANCIS OF THE RANGES: Or, The Old Ranchman's Treasure.

A vivid picture of life on the great cattle ranges of the West.

THE GIRLS OF RIVERCLIFF SCHOOL; Or, Beth Baldwin's Resolve.

This is one of the most entertaining stories centering about a girl's
school that has ever been written.

WHEN ORIOLE CAME TO HARBOR LIGHT.

The story of a young girl, cast up by the sea, and rescued by an old
lighthouse keeper.

WHEN ORIOLE TRAVELED WESTWARD.

Oriole visits the family of a rich ranchman and enjoys herself
immensely.




THE OUTDOOR GIRLS SERIES

By LAURA LEE HOPE

Author of the "Bobbsey Twins," "Bunny Brown" Series, Etc.

    Uniform Style of Binding. Individual Colored Wrappers.
    Every Volume Complete in Itself.

These tales take in the various adventures participated
in by several bright, up-to-date girls who love outdoor life.

    THE OUTDOOR GIRLS OF DEEPDALE;
    Or, Camping and Tramping for Fun and Health.

    THE OUTDOOR GIRLS AT RAINBOW LAKE;
    Or, The Stirring Cruise of the Motor Boat Gem.

    THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN A MOTOR CAR;
    Or, The Haunted Mansion of Shadow Valley.

    THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN A WINTER CAMP;
    Or, Glorious Days on Skates and Ice Boats.

    THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN FLORIDA;
    Or, Wintering in the Sunny South.

    THE OUTDOOR GIRLS AT OCEAN VIEW;
    Or, The Box That Was Found in the Sand.

    THE OUTDOOR GIRLS ON PINE ISLAND;
    Or, A Cave and What it Contained.

    THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN ARMY SERVICE;
    Or, Doing Their Bit for Uncle Sam.

    THE OUTDOOR GIRLS AT THE HOSTESS HOUSE;
    Or, Doing Their Best For the Soldiers.

    THE OUTDOOR GIRLS AT BLUFF POINT;
    Or, A Wreck and A Rescue.

    THE OUTDOOR GIRLS AT WILD ROSE LODGE;
    Or, The Hermit of Moonlight Falls.

    THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN THE SADDLE;
    Or, The Girl Miner of Gold Run.

    THE OUTDOOR GIRLS AROUND THE CAMPFIRE;
    Or, The Old Maid of the Mountains.

    THE OUTDOOR GIRLS ON CAPE COD;
    Or, Sally Ann of Lighthouse Rock.



THE BLYTHE GIRLS BOOKS

By LAURA LEE HOPE

    Individual Colored Wrappers and Text Illustrations by
    THELMA GOOCH
    Every Volume Complete in Itself

The Blythe girls, three in number, were left alone in New York City.
Helen, who went in for art and music, kept the little flat uptown, while
Margy just out of a business school, obtained a position as a private
secretary and Rose, plain-spoken and businesslike, took what she called
a "job" in a department store.

THE BLYTHE GIRLS: HELEN, MARGY AND ROSE; Or, Facing the Great World.

A fascinating tale of real happenings in the great metropolis.

THE BLYTHE GIRLS: MARGY'S QUEER INHERITANCE; Or, The Worth of a Name.

The girls had a peculiar old aunt and when she died she left an unusual
inheritance. This tale continues the struggles of all the girls for
existence.

THE BLYTHE GIRLS: ROSE'S GREAT PROBLEM; Or, Face to Face With a Crisis.

Rose still at work in the big department store, is one day faced with
the greatest problem of her life. A tale of mystery as well as exciting
girlish happenings.

THE BLYTHE GIRLS: HELEN'S STRANGE BOARDER; Or, The Girl From Bronx Park.

Helen, out sketching, goes to the assistance of a strange girl, whose
real identity is a puzzle to all the Blythe girls. Who the girl really
was comes as a tremendous surprise.

THE BLYTHE GIRLS: THREE ON A VACATION; Or, The Mystery at Peach Farm.

The girls close their flat and go to the country for two weeks--and fall
in with all sorts of curious and exciting happenings. How they came to
the assistance of Joe Morris, and solved a queer mystery, is well
related.




CAROLYN WELLS BOOKS

    Attractively Bound. Illustrated. Colored Wrappers.

THE MARJORIE BOOKS

Marjorie is a happy little girl of twelve, up to mischief, but full of
goodness and sincerity. In her and her friends every girl reader will
see much of her own love of fun, play and adventure.

    MARJORIE'S VACATION
    MARJORIE'S BUSY DAYS
    MARJORIE'S NEW FRIEND
    MARJORIE IN COMMAND
    MARJORIE'S MAYTIME
    MARJORIE AT SEACOTE

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TWO LITTLE WOMEN SERIES

Introducing Dorinda Fayre--a pretty blonde, sweet, serious, timid and a
little slow, and Dorothy Rose--a sparkling brunette, quick, elf-like,
high tempered, full of mischief and always getting into scrapes.

    TWO LITTLE WOMEN
    TWO LITTLE WOMEN AND TREASURE HOUSE
    TWO LITTLE WOMEN ON A HOLIDAY

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DICK AND DOLLY BOOKS

Dick and Dolly are brother and sister, and their games, their pranks,
their joys and sorrows, are told in a manner which makes the stories
"really true" to young readers.

    DICK AND DOLLY
    DICK AND DOLLY'S ADVENTURES




THE BOBBSEY TWINS BOOKS

For Little Men and Women

By LAURA LEE HOPE

Author of "The Bunny Brown Series," Etc.

    Durably Bound. Illustrated. Uniform Style of Binding.
    Every Volume Complete in Itself.

These books for boys and girls between the ages of three and ten stand
among children and their parents of this generation where the books of
Louisa May Alcott stood in former days. The haps and mishaps of this
inimitable pair of twins, their many adventures and experiences are a
source of keen delight to imaginative children everywhere.

    THE BOBBSEY TWINS
    THE BOBBSEY TWINS IN THE COUNTRY
    THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT THE SEASHORE
    THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT SCHOOL
    THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT SNOW LODGE
    THE BOBBSEY TWINS ON A HOUSEBOAT
    THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT MEADOW BROOK
    THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT HOME
    THE BOBBSEY TWINS IN A GREAT CITY
    THE BOBBSEY TWINS ON BLUEBERRY ISLAND
    THE BOBBSEY TWINS ON THE DEEP BLUE SEA
    THE BOBBSEY TWINS IN THE GREAT WEST
    THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT CEDAR CAMP
    THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT THE COUNTY FAIR
    THE BOBBSEY TWINS CAMPING OUT
    THE BOBBSEY TWINS AND BABY MAY
    THE BOBBSEY TWINS KEEPING HOUSE
    THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT CLOVERBANK




THE BUNNY BROWN SERIES

By LAURA LEE HOPE

Author of the Popular "Bobbsey Twins" Books, Etc.

    Durably Bound. Illustrated. Uniform Style of Binding.
    Every Volume Complete in Itself.

These stories by the author of the "Bobbsey Twins" Books are eagerly
welcomed by the little folks from about five to ten years of age. Their
eyes fairly dance with delight at the lively doings of inquisitive
little Bunny Brown and his cunning, trustful sister Sue.

    BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE
    BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE ON GRANDPA'S FARM
    BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE PLAYING CIRCUS
    BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE AT CAMP REST-A-WHILE
    BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE AT AUNT LU'S CITY HOME
    BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE IN THE BIG WOODS
    BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE ON AN AUTO TOUR
    BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE AND THEIR SHETLAND PONY
    BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE GIVING A SHOW
    BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE AT CHRISTMAS TREE COVE
    BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE IN THE SUNNY SOUTH
    BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE KEEPING STORE
    BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE AND THEIR TRICK DOG
    BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE AT A SUGAR CAMP




SIX LITTLE BUNKERS SERIES

By LAURA LEE HOPE

Author of The Bobbsey Twins Books, The Bunny Brown Series, The Blythe
Girls Books, Etc.

    Durably Bound. Illustrated. Uniform Style of Binding.
    Every Volume Complete in Itself.

Delightful stories for little boys and girls which sprung into immediate
popularity. To know the six little Bunkers is to take them at once to
your heart, they are so intensely human, so full of fun and cute
sayings. Each story has a little plot of its own--one that can be easily
followed--and all are written in Miss Hope's most entertaining manner.
Clean, wholesome volumes which ought to be on the bookshelf of every
child in the land.

    SIX LITTLE BUNKERS AT GRANDMA BELL'S
    SIX LITTLE BUNKERS AT AUNT JO'S
    SIX LITTLE BUNKERS AT COUSIN TOM'S
    SIX LITTLE BUNKERS AT GRANDPA FORD'S
    SIX LITTLE BUNKERS AT UNCLE FRED'S
    SIX LITTLE BUNKERS AT CAPTAIN BEN'S
    SIX LITTLE BUNKERS AT COWBOY JACK'S
    SIX LITTLE BUNKERS AT MAMMY JUNE'S
    SIX LITTLE BUNKERS AT FARMER JOEL'S
    SIX LITTLE BUNKERS AT MILLER NED'S
    SIX LITTLE BUNKERS AT INDIAN JOHN'S


GROSSET & DUNLAP, PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK


    +-----------------------------------------------------+
    |Transcriber's Note:                                  |
    |                                                     |
    |The word catalogue appears in the main text, but is  |
    |catalog in the advertisements at the end of the book.|
    |Raquette Lake is also shown as Racquette Lake.       |
    +-----------------------------------------------------+





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Girl Scouts in the Adirondacks
by Lillian Elizabeth Roy

